Sec. 94-336. - Interference with public safety communications.
By placing or maintain wireless telecommunication facilities within the city, each and every telecommunication service
provider and pass-through service provider agrees to each of the following:
1. Compliance with "good engineering practices" as defined by the FCC in its rules and regulations.
2. Compliance with FCC regulations regarding susceptibility to radio frequency interference, frequency coordination
requirements, general technical standards for power, antenna, bandwidth limitations, frequency stability, transmitter
measurements, operating requirements, and any and all other federal statutory and regulatory requirements relating
to radio frequency interference (RFI).
3. In the case of an application for collocated wireless communications facilities, the applicant/registrant, together with
the owner of the subject site, shall use their best efforts to provide a composite analysis of all users of the site to
determine that the applicant's proposed facilities will not cause radio frequency interference with the city's public
safety communications equipment and will implement appropriate technical measures, as described in antenna
element replacements, to attempt to prevent such interference.
4. Whenever the city, or a public safety agency (after notice to the city) has encountered radio frequency interference
with its public safety communications equipment and it believes that such interference has been or is being caused
by one or more antenna arrays, the following steps shall be taken:
a. The city shall provide notification to all wireless service providers operating in the city of possible interference
with the public safety communications equipment, and upon such notifications, the owners shall use their best
efforts to cooperate and coordinate with the city and among themselves to investigate and mitigate the
interference, if any, utilizing the procedures set forth in the joint wireless industry-public safety "Enhanced
Best Practices Guide," released by the FCC in Appendix D of FCC 04-168 (released August 6, 2004),
including the "Good Engineering Practices," as may be amended or revised by the FCC from time to time in
any successor regulations.
b. If any equipment owner fails to cooperate with the city in complying with the owner's obligations under this
section or if the FCC makes a determination of radio frequency interference with the city public safety
communications equipment, the owner who failed to cooperate and/or the owner of the equipment which
caused the interference shall be responsible, upon FCC determination of radio frequency interference, for
reimbursing the city for all costs associated with ascertaining and resolving the interference, including but not
limited to any engineering studies obtained by the city to determine the source of the interference. For the
purposes of this subsection, failure to cooperate shall include failure to initiate any response or action as
described in the "Enhanced Best Practices Guide" within twenty-four hours of city's notification.
(Ord. No. 4549-15, ยง 2(94-346), 6-8-2015)

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 1

