Sec. 94-304. - Accessory structures.
a. General provisions.
1. Accessory structures must be constructed simultaneously with, or following the construction of the main
building and shall not be occupied until after the principal structure has received a certificate of occupancy.
No accessory structure shall be constructed or established on any lot prior to the time of construction or
relocation of the principal structure to which it is accessory.
2. Conversion of detached garages or other accessory structures for the purpose of creating a dwelling unit
shall be permitted only if the newly created dwelling unit is permitted and all code requirements are satisfied.
3. Any required off-street parking that is deleted or rendered unusable by a conversion or addition pursuant to
the provisions of this section shall be replaced in a manner consistent with ARTICLE XV parking of the zoning
code.
4. Donation collection bins prohibited. It shall be unlawful to deposit, store, keep or maintain or to permit to be
deposited, stored, kept or maintained a donation collection bin in or on any lot, parcel or tract of land or body
of water in any zoning district or on public property. A donation collection bin is hereby defined as a
receptacle designed with a door, slot or other opening and which is intended to accept and store donated
items; provided, however, the definition of donation collection bins shall not include recycling bins for presorted recyclable materials that would otherwise go to the landfill such as beverage containers, glass,
aluminum, plastics, steel, cardboard, paper and plastic bags, magazines, newspapers, and paper products.
b. Accessory structures in residential districts.
1. Maximum square footage. The total floor area of all roofed accessory buildings on a property shall not exceed
75 percent of the gross floor area of the primary structure with a maximum floor area of 1,000 square feet.
For the residential neighborhoods of Echo Lakes and Westfield, all roofed accessory buildings are prohibited.
This prohibition does not include gazebos and screen enclosures.
2. Setbacks.
Front: 25 feet.
Side: Five feet from the lot lines.
Corner: Same as required for principal structure.
Rear: Five feet minimum or 15 feet from the centerline of the alley to a garage door facing the alley,
whichever is greater.
3. Building separation. Accessory structures covered with a solid roof shall be located no closer than six feet to
the principal structure. Accessory structures less than six feet from the primary structure must meet the
primary structure setbacks. Accessory structures may be connected to the principal structure with a canvas
covered open breezeway.
4. Height. Accessory structures shall not exceed 25 feet.
c. Utility and tool sheds in Echo Lakes and Westfield neighborhoods Manufactured utility and tool sheds, which may
be exempt from the Florida Building Code, when accessory to a single-family use, may be permitted in the most
preferred available location. In order of preference the available locations are:
1. Rear yard, behind the rear of the primary structure, five feet from the side and rear property lines.
2. Side setback, five feet behind the front of the primary structure, five feet from the side property line. For
corner lots, the shed must be a minimum of five feet behind the building line. If visible from the street, sheds
must be screened with an opaque fence or landscape hedge that is a minimum of five feet at installation with
the potential to grow to and be maintained at 10 feet within the required setbacks.
No more than one shed shall be permitted per property. Sheds shall not be habitable. A shed shall be no greater
than 12 feet in length on any side and shall be no greater in height than 10 feet measured to the top of the structure
and shall be no larger in area than 120 gross square feet.
d. Screen enclosures.

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 1

1. Screen enclosures attached to or detached from the principal building shall be considered an accessory
structure if the roof and all sides of the enclosure attached to the principal building are made of screening
material. In such cases the accessory building setbacks shall apply to the enclosure.
2. Roofed screened enclosures attached to the principal building shall be considered part of the principal
structure and all principal building setbacks for the respective zoning district shall apply.
e. Swimming pools.
1. Additional application requirements.
a. Permitted with extra requirements. In the event a property owner cannot meet any of the additional
standards shown in subsection (b), any waivers shall require approval by the zoning board of appeals
as a Class B special use permit.
b. Above ground swimming pools are prohibited.
2. Additional standards.

1. Swimming pools, appurtenances and screen enclosures shall be located on a lot as depicted in the
following table:
REQUIRED MINIMUM SETBACKS

Water's edge
Screen enclosure and appurtenances

SIDE
LOT LINE

FRONT
LOT LINE

REAR
LOT LINE

CORNER
LOT LINE

5 feet
5 feet

25 feet
See I below

5 feet
5 feet

10 feet
10 feet

I. All screen enclosures shall be located behind the street facade of the principal building.

b. Every swimming pool shall be enclosed by a fence or similar structure which is installed to obstruct
access by persons other than the owners or occupants of the residence within which a swimming pool
is located. Barriers or fences shall be at least four feet in height above grade.
c. Access to an accessory swimming pool must be through a building or through a self-closing and selflatching gate or through a screen enclosure door with latches placed at least 54 inches above bottom of
gate. At least 90 percent of the surface area of all screen enclosures shall be screening material
through which air shall flow. All pools located on a corner lot shall be screened at the corner lot line by
at least a 42-inch high landscape buffer, as measured from grade, at the property line, to ensure
privacy.
d. If a patio or paved area is provided adjacent to or surrounding a pool, it shall be designed to drain away
from the pool, but not onto adjacent properties.
e. For a double frontage lot, a swimming pool may be located along that street frontage that is the
predominant location of swimming pools along that same street. The minimum setback for the water's
edge, screen enclosures and appurtenances from the property line shall be five feet. A landscape buffer
along the pool's street frontage is required that is consistent with subsection c. above.
(Ord. No. 3744-04, § 4, 9-27-2004; Ord. No. 4450-13, § 4, 4-1-2013; Ord. No. 4492-13, § 3, 1-21-2014; Ord. No. 4515-14,
§ 1, 7-21-2014; Ord. No. 4829-19, § 3, 01-27-2020)

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 2

