Sec. 94-108. - Site and building design requirements.
a. Intent. The site and building design requirements provide the basic requirements for development in the downtown
area as they relate to the form and arrangement of buildings and other structures on sites. The requirements
establish the broad design-based approach to a site and the structures on the site. The site and building design
requirements include the specific elements required for development approval, while providing significant flexibility
in design.
b. Capacity. The building envelope established by these requirements allows flexibility in building massing and
organization while also providing limitations with respect to the building's impact on adjacent public right-of-way and
neighboring development. The building requirements tables limit the area and volume of the building envelope that
may be filled with building components. In order to provide flexibility on building design, the envelope provided is
larger than the permitted development capacity and shall not be construed as allowing additional capacity not
otherwise permitted by these regulations.
c. Requirements. Unless otherwise provided in this article, development characteristics shall conform to the site and
building requirements, which are grouped within the following categories:
1. Building requirements. Building requirements including, but not limited to, FAR; height; setbacks; footprint;
open space; active uses; transparency; and active use liner depth shall be regulated pursuant to individual
subdistrict building requirements and shall apply to all buildings and structures, including parking structures.
For definitions and minimum requirements, see section 94-109.
2. Building facades. All building facades shall comply with the facade articulation requirements on Table IV-4,
and the architectural treatment requirements when applicable.
3. Projections and encroachments. Projections and encroachments including, but not limited to, architectural
features; awnings; balconies; canopies; colonnades; porches; decorative roofs; covered structures; parapets;
mechanical rooms and swimming pools shall comply with Table IV-5.
4. Passenger loading. The location of passenger loading areas including, but not limited to, passenger drop-offs;
porte cocheres; and cross-block passenger drop-offs; shall comply with Table IV-11. See section 94-111 for
additional parking requirements.
5. Open space. Public open space, semi-public open space and private open space types shall comply with
Table IV-6 and Table IV-7.
6. Tree canopy. Tree canopy shall be measured pursuant to Table IV-8.
(Ord. No. 4213-09, ยง 6 (Exh. A), 6-29-2009)

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 1

