Sec. 94-130. - CC-2 lakefront district.
a. Intent. The intent of the CC-2 district is to permit retail, office, residential, marina and certain other uses at densities
which are relatively high and which facilitate public access to the Lake Worth waterfront. Continuously occupied
uses such as multi-family residential, hotels, and restaurants with outdoor seating that activate the waterfront are
encouraged. Development restrictions in the CC-2 district are designed to preserve the spacious quality of Flagler
Drive and to protect views of Lake Worth from lower and upper levels of buildings in areas located away from the
lake. Definitions related to this section shall meet the provisions of ARTICLE XIX. This district encompasses the
property east of Flagler Drive, between the Flagler Memorial Bridge and Banyan Boulevard.
b. General development standards.
1. Street front tree planting. One tree shall be planted for every 25 feet of street frontage. All tree planting areas
located within sidewalks and paved plazas shall be accented around their periphery with brick or equivalent
decorative material approved pursuant to the applicable review process. Trees shall conform under this
section shall be street trees of Florida number 1 grade or better. Shade trees planted shall have a height of at
least 15 feet. Palm trees shall have clear wood of at least eight feet.
2. Planted screening for parking structure facades. Facades of parking structures shall incorporate planters
providing a total one square foot of planting area for each linear foot of facade per parking level. Planting
areas shall be arranged in a linear fashion or clustered at intervals. Planters shall be provided with permanent
irrigation to permit watering of plant materials.
3. Screening of building equipment. Building equipment shall be screened so that it cannot be seen from above
or below. For the purpose of this section, building equipment shall include heat, ventilation and air
conditioning equipment; radio, television, telecommunication and satellite reception devices; and other similar
equipment. Required equipment screening shall be included as an integral element of the overall architectural
design of a building or structure.
4. Roof coverings. Roof areas shall be finished in a manner to present an attractive appearance; tar, tar and
gravel, or ballast shall not be utilized as finishing materials. Roof areas may be landscaped; however,
landscaped areas shall be provided with automatic irrigation to permit watering of plant materials.
5. Parking requirements. Onsite and offsite parking and loading requirements shall be provided pursuant to
ARTICLE XV, except for the total number of parking spaces required which shall follow the requirements of
the special districts in table IV-9 in ARTICLE IV.
6. Surface parking prohibited. Surface parking in required open spaces is prohibited; however, driveways,
pedestrian walks, or other paved circulation areas are allowed as provided in this section.
7. Permitted uses. Refer to section 94-272 for permitted uses in CC-2.
c. Minimum lot dimensions. Minimum lot dimensions for the CC-2 lakefront district shall be as follows:
1. Minimum lot area: 6,000 square feet.
2. Minimum lot width: 50 feet.
d. Development intensities. In the CC-2 lakefront district the development intensity for residential and nonresidential
land uses shall be regulated as follows:
1. The development intensity for nonresidential land uses shall be regulated by the following floor area ratio: 2.5.
2. The development intensity for residential land uses shall be regulated by the following floor area ratios:
a. With lot area containing 20,000 square feet: 1.39.
b. With lot area 80,000 or greater square feet: 2.42.
c. The floor area ratio for lots containing more than 20,000 square feet but less than 80,000 square feet
shall be determined by the following formula: lot size (in square feet) multiplied by 0.0000083 + 1.39.
The floor area ratio calculated using this formula shall not exceed 2.42.
e. Mixed-uses. For the CC-2 lakefront district, the combined floor area ratio for property to contain both residential and
nonresidential uses shall be determined by the percentage of the total lot dedicated to each use and the applicable
floor area ratio for the specific zoning district within which the lot is located. Residential units constructed under the
provisions of this section shall not be converted to any other use.

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 1

f. Minimum building setbacks. Minimum building setbacks in the CC-2 lakefront district shall be as follows:
1. Minimum building setback:
a. From property line adjoining Flagler Drive right-of-way:
1. Minimum: 24 feet measured from back of existing curb.
b. From property line adjoining public right-of-way other than Flagler Drive: 20 feet.
c. From property line not adjoining public right-of-way: 20 feet.
d. From the property line adjoining the Lake Worth waterfront: 20 feet measured from the water face of the
seawall cap.
2. Other non-building elements may encroach into the minimum setback according to provisions in the general
code.
g. Maximum lot coverage by buildings. Maximum lot coverage by buildings in the CC-2 lakefront district shall be 60
percent.
h. Maximum building height. There is no specific limit for the maximum building height in the CC-2 lakefront district.
i. Minimum required open space area. The minimum required open space area in the CC-2 lakefront district shall be
40 percent of total lot area. Minimum required open space may consist of yards, required plazas, required
landscape areas, required buffer areas, and sidewalks.
j. Minimum required plaza area. The minimum required plaza area in the CC-2 lakefront district shall be 15 percent of
total lot area. The plaza shall be located along the Lake Worth side with at least 50 percent of the plaza frontage
along the waterfront, and it shall be connected to the public right-of-way on Flagler Drive by publicly accessible
sidewalks or promenades.
k. Minimum required landscape area. The minimum required landscape area in the CC-2 lakefront district shall be 15
percent of total lot area. Required landscape areas shall be developed as provided in this ARTICLE XIV.
l. Reserved .
m. Planned developments. Property within the CC-2 lakeview district may be rezoned to CC-2 planned development
district subject to the procedures set forth in section 94-207. This will allow more intense use of certain sites in
return for the provisions of desired facilities and amenities that will enhance the character and viability of the district.
The CC-2 planned development district will be subject to the following requirements:
1. Minimum lot dimensions. Minimum lot dimensions in the CC-2 downtown planned development district shall
be as follows:
a. Minimum lot area: 20,000 square feet.
b. Minimum lot width: 150 feet.
2. Development intensities. The development intensity for residential and nonresidential land uses in the CC-2
downtown planned development district shall be regulated as follows:
a. The base development intensity for nonresidential land uses shall be regulated by the following floor
area ratio: 2.75.
b. The base development intensity for residential land uses shall be regulated by the following floor area
ratios:
1. With lot area containing 20,000 square feet: 1.60.
2. With lot area 80,000 or greater square feet: 2.79.
3. The floor area ratio for lots containing more than 20,000 square feet shall be determined by the
following formula: lot size (in square feet) times 0.0000083 + 1.39. The floor area ratio calculated
using this formula shall not exceed 2.42.
3. Mixed-uses. The combined floor area ratio for property to contain both residential and nonresidential uses in
the CC-2 downtown planned development district shall be determined by the percentage of the total lot
dedicated to each use and the applicable floor area ratio for the specific zoning district within which the lot is
located. Residential units constructed under the provisions of this section shall not be converted to any other
use.
4. Minimum setbacks and separation between buildings. The minimum setbacks and separation between
buildings in the CC-2 downtown planned development district shall be 50 percent or less of the side and rear
setbacks, and building setbacks above 40 feet over grade may be waived to accommodate design
considerations or site limitations, etc.

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 2

5. Maximum lot coverage by buildings. The maximum lot coverage by buildings in the CC-2 downtown planned
development district shall be 60 percent.
6. Maximum building height. There shall be no specific limit for the maximum building height in the CC-2
downtown planned development district.
7. Minimum required open space area. The minimum required open space area in the CC-2 downtown planned
development district shall be 40 percent of total lot area. Minimum required open space may consist of yards,
required plazas, required landscape areas, required buffer areas, paved circulation areas, and sidewalks.
8. Minimum required plaza area. The minimum required plaza area in the CC-2 downtown planned development
district shall be 15 percent of total lot area.
9. Minimum required landscape area. The minimum required landscape area in the CC-2 downtown planned
development district shall be 15 percent of total lot area. Minimum required landscape areas shall be
developed as provided in this chapter.
10. Maximum open space paved circulation area coverage. The maximum open space paved circulation area
coverage in the CC-2 downtown planned development district shall be 15 percent of total lot area.
(Ord. No. 4213-09, ยง 6(Exh. A), 6-29-2009; Ord. No. 4594-15, ยง 2, 10-13-2015; Ord. No. 4661-16, ยง 3, 10-24-2016)

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 3

