Sec. 94-113. - Landscape and streetscape requirements.
a. Intent. Streetscape requirements provide specific design standards for all public streets to enhance the quality of
the public realm and develop a system of pedestrian-oriented streets, walkways, and open spaces.
b. Exterior lighting. All buildings shall provide exterior lighting every night from dusk to dawn to illuminate building
entrances, adjacent sidewalks, and paths, at a minimum of 0.6 footcandles as measured at the back edge of the
curb and one foot above the sidewalk. This measurement shall include light emanating from public and private
sources. Unshielded light fixtures shall be prohibited.
c. Site visibility triangle requirements. Landscaping shall be installed in accordance with the clear vision requirements
of subsection 94-305(e). However, for downtown master plan purposes, the setback measurement shall be from the
back of curb, except in R subdistricts, where it shall be measured from the property line.
d. Streetscape requirements. Streetscapes shall be designed to provide consistency for each corridor, as established
by the street hierarchy and district character. Required building setbacks shall be designed to include features such
as, but not limited to, sidewalks, street trees, tree grates, base planting, landscape buffers, and lighting as approved
by the city to support the particular district character. All streetscape requirements are applicable to any new
construction, renovation or addition with a construction cost equal or above 50% of the property's improvement
value as indicated by the Palm Beach County Property Appraiser's Office. All portions of private development
improvements located within the minimum required setback including private property and/or the right-of-way shall
comply with the following:
1. Sidewalks. A sidewalk with a minimum of eight feet clear width shall be provided along the building frontage.
Sidewalk width may be reduced to five feet within the residential districts. Private sidewalks which serve as
an extension of the public sidewalk shall comply with the streetscape requirements, shall match the public
sidewalk in design and material, and shall provide a seamless transition between the two.
2. Street trees. Street trees shall be installed adjacent to the curb at a maximum of 30 feet on center along all
streets. Adjustments may be authorized by planning staff due to site constraints. Tree species shall be
approved by the city's landscape planner, and shade trees shall be preferred. Smaller tree species shall be
spaced closer together as appropriate to provide continuous tree canopy over the sidewalk. Trees shall be a
minimum of 20 feet in height, and have a minimum of eight feet clear trunk, or as approved by the city.
Structural soil shall be installed meeting the city approved standards as a minimum requirement under
adjacent paved areas, or suspended pavement soil cell systems may be installed as an alternative.
3. Tree grates and base planting. Trees shall be planted within planting beds which shall have a minimum of
four feet in width between the curb and the required sidewalk. Planting beds shall be planted with shrubs or
groundcover as appropriate. Pass-through areas shall be provided for parking space access to the sidewalk.
Tree grates shall only be used where required to meet minimum sidewalk width. Tree grates shall comply
with the city standard.
4. Street lights. Street lighting shall be provided to attain the appropriate footcandle measurement necessary for
safe pedestrian and vehicular movement. Light fixture and poles shall meet the city approved standard.
5. Other street furniture. Additional street furniture, as approved by the city, shall comply with city approved
standards.
6. Irrigation. All street trees and landscaped areas within minimum required setback and the right-of-way shall
have irrigation provided from the adjacent property, as provided in the approved site plan or approved
landscape plan.
7. Maintenance. The property owner and their successors or assigns shall be responsible for the installation and
maintenance of landscaping, tree grates, structural soil and irrigation, as provided in the approved site plan or
approved landscape plan. A maintenance agreement with the city shall be required.
8. Transit amenities. Existing transit stops shall be maintained and improved to meet city approved standards.
9. Bicycle parking. Bicycle parking shall be provided at a minimum of one space per every 100 feet of street
frontage. Specifications shall meet city approved standards and may be waived if similar facilities are already
provided within the same block.

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 1

10. Driveways and curb cuts. Driveways and curb cuts shall be designed to minimize the negative impact in the
pedestrian path of travel. Driveways shall maintain the sidewalk elevation when possible, and meet city
approved standards.
e. General landscape requirements. The intent of this section is to provide standards for landscaping open space
areas when required by this chapter. All open space, excluding vehicular and pedestrian circulation features and
surface parking, shall be covered with grass, ground cover, shrubbery, or other suitable plant material, or may have
paved active recreation areas, patios, terraces, pedestrian circulation areas, swimming pools, water features, and
similar site components incorporated in the open space designs. All open space shall comply with requirements of
section 94-109 and shall be subject to the following requirements:
1. [Landscape plans.] Landscape plans shall be prepared by, and bear the seal of, a landscape architect
licensed to practice in the State of Florida, or by persons authorized by F.S. ch. 481, pt. II regarding
landscape architecture. Residential landscape improvements for single-family dwelling units or for multifamily
units up to ten units, with estimated permit value of less than $2,500.00, shall be exempt from this
requirement.
2. Exemptions. These general landscape requirements will not be applicable to proposed renovations, repair, or
alteration to a structure when such improvements will not exceed 50 percent of the value of the structure and
significant landscape improvements are not proposed.
3. Amount of plant material required. The total open space area provided shall determine the number of trees
and shrubs to be planted. The total amount of plant material required shall not be affected by that portion of
the open space area devoted to active recreation purposes, patios, terraces, pedestrian circulation, and
similar amenities.
4. Curbs and wheel stops. All landscaped areas and plant materials within or adjacent to vehicular use areas
shall be protected from vehicular encroachment by wheel stops, curbs, or other similar devices. This
requirement, however, shall not apply to single-family units within the R subdistricts.
5. Landscaping of private land and public rights-of-way. Private land and public rights-of-way between street or
sidewalk surfaces and required buffer strips and landscaped open space areas shall be planted with grass or
other plant materials. Grass areas, when provided, shall be sodded. The planting of trees and shrubs within
public rights-of-way is subject to the approval of the city.
6. Subdistrict landscape requirements. Open spaces provided in all subdistricts shall comply with the open
space standards of Table IV-7. Front yard setbacks for properties within the R-subdistricts shall comply with
section 94-482. Landscaping for properties within the R- subdistricts shall comply with the requirements of
ARTICLE XIV of this chapter.
7. Maintenance. The property owner shall be required to maintain all landscaping as provided in the approved
site plan or approved landscape plan.
f. Surface parking lots. All off-street surface parking lots shall meet the following landscaping requirements:
1. Setbacks and landscape buffer. Surface parking lots shall meet the minimum ground floor setback
requirements as provided in the subdistrict building requirements table. A five-foot landscape buffer shall be
provided in addition to the ground floor setback to visually screen parking areas. The landscape buffer shall
be comprised of a hedge planted at two-foot to three-foot intervals and maintained at a maximum height of 36
inches at maturity. Shade trees shall be planted at 30-foot intervals. A five-foot landscape buffer shall also be
provided meeting these requirements for the entire perimeter of the surface lot. Surface parking areas located
behind buildings are exempt from the front setback landscape requirements.
2. Terminal islands, interior islands and divider medians. All other parking area landscaping shall meet the
requirements of Chapter XIV.
g. Buffering of nonresidential uses adjoining residential property. The owner of property used for nonresidential
purposes adjoining an R subdistrict shall install and maintain along the entire property line a protective screen wall
and a landscaped buffer. For the purposes of this provision, nonresidential uses does not include park uses.
Protective screen walls and buffers are required to meet the following requirements:
1. Landscape buffer. A minimum five-foot landscape buffer shall be provided adjacent to the property line
abutting any R subdistrict. The landscape buffer shall be comprised of a hedge planted at two-foot to threefoot intervals and maintained at a maximum height of four feet at maturity. Shade trees shall be planted at 30foot intervals.

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 2

2. Screen wall. A minimum four-foot high wall shall be provided adjacent to the property line abutting any R
subdistrict. The screen wall shall be solid, and composed of brick, block, wood, or similarly durable material.
Chainlink fences with slats shall not be permitted.
h. Outdoor mechanical equipment and disposal facilities. Outdoor mechanical equipment such as but not limited to,
incinerators, fuel or propane tanks, chiller plants, and garbage or trash receptacles shall comply with subsection 94315(a). All wall mounted equipment shall be screened from view with a screen equal to the height of the
equipment.
(Ord. No. 4213-09, ยง 1, 9-8-2009; Ord. No. 4690-16, ยง 4, 3-27-2017; Ord. No. 4885-19, ยง 4, 12-30-2019)

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 3

