Sec. 94-112. - Alleys and public rights-of-way.
a. Intent. Standards for alleys and rights-of-way provide guidelines for new streets and alley vacation to enhance
pedestrian and vehicular circulation, to provide safe service access for buildings, and to encourage a variety of
building scales.
b. Vacating alleys and rights-of-way.
1. Alleys.
a. Abandonment requests shall comply with Chapter 78, Article VII - Vacating and Closing Street and
Alleys.
b. Alley rights-of-way shall not be vacated in any R subdistrict.
c. Vacation of alley rights-of-way shall be discouraged; however, proposed developments seeking to
vacate alleys in all other subdistricts, and shall comply with the following requirements:
1. Any proposed development seeking to vacate an alley or any portion of an alley shall be subject
to a special review by DAC, with the DAC recommendation forwarded to the city commission for
final decision.
2. Proposed developments which vacate an alley shall have all services, including but not limited to
loading, trash removal and general services, internalized and screened from public view.
3. Proposed developments which vacate an entire alley within a block shall provide an open space
equal to the size of the vacated alley at a ratio of 1:1 and shall meet the criteria of the open space
standards of section 94-109. The area provided shall be in addition to the minimum open space
requirement defined in the building requirements tables.
4. Proposed developments which vacate portions of alleys shall reconfigure the alley to maintain two
separate access points for entry and exit from the development onto the street. The reconfigured
alley shall have the minimum dimensions recommended by the city's engineering services
department.
2. Rights-of-way.
a. Abandonment requests shall comply with Chapter 78, Article VII - Vacating and Closing Street and
Alleys.
b. Vacation and relocation of rights-of-way shall be discouraged.
c. Any proposed development seeking to vacate or relocate a right-of-way shall be subject to a special
review by DAC, with the DAC recommendation forwarded to the city commission for final decision.
c. New streets. Where designated by the zoning atlas, new streets are encouraged to improve connectivity. In certain
conditions, the dedication of new street right-of-way may be necessary to utilize incentive programs. Dedicated
ROWs may be used to calculated FAR on subject property.
d. Installation of public utilities. All proposed developments equal to or greater than 50,000 gross square feet shall
have all public utilities service connections, including telephone, cable and electric distribution service installed
underground.
(Ord. No. 4213-09, ยง 6(Exh. A), 6-29-2009)

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 1

