Sec. 94-110. - Signage requirements.
a. Intent. The signage requirements shall determine size, placement, and number of signs permitted for the various
districts and subdistricts to support the identification of commerce and civic uses, provide consistency and
continuity, and protect each district from the clutter and negative visual impact of excess signage.
b. Requirements which apply to all districts.
1. Except as specifically provided in this section, the sign regulations in ARTICLE XIII of the zoning and land
development regulations shall also apply.
2. Construction and materials. All installation components or hanging devices such as, but not limited to,
fasteners, clips, bolts, etc., shall be of non-corrosive, stainless steel, aluminum, brass or bronze; carbon
bearing steel shall be of nonferrous metal of quality material and finish. All fasteners shall be concealed. All
signage shall have an individual circuit and be controlled by a time clock. Exposed conduit or electrical wiring
is prohibited. Exposed raceways, transformers, ballasts, and electrical wiring are prohibited. Channel or cutletter signage is recommended.
3. Prohibited signs. Audible, flashing, paper signs, and internally illuminated box-signs are prohibited. Signs with
visible backs are prohibited. Monuments signs are prohibited except as expressly provided in this section.
4. Method to calculate sign face area is pursuant to section 94-405.
c. Commercial and mixed-uses within urban core and special district planning areas. Signage for commercial and
mixed-uses shall comply with the following requirements:
1. Up to two building identity signs, with the same identity, shall be allowed on buildings three or more stories in
height. Only one building identity sign shall be allowed per facade. Such signs shall not exceed a total sign
face of 100 square feet each. For buildings ten stories or taller, the maximum sign face shall not exceed 200
square feet each. Building identity signs may be comprised of internally illuminated individual letters and
primary logos, but not internally illuminated box signs. Individual letters shall be attached directly to the
building facade. In those cases where the individual letters cannot be attached directly to the building facade,
a support back panel may be allowed, but such panel shall not be internally illuminated.
2. An external sign band may be applied on the facade of each building provided that it shall not exceed 36
inches in height by 60 percent of the applicable storefront width. Signage may be permitted on awnings or
canopies, but shall be considered as square footage against the allowable signage area. The sign band shall
be located within the first two stories of the building.
3. Pedestrian blade signs may be attached perpendicular to the facade projecting out no more than four feet
from the building facade, not exceeding three feet in vertical dimension, and with a minimum vertical
clearance of eight feet. Pedestrian blades sign shall be set back a minimum of two feet from the end of the
building or storefront. Pedestrian blade signs shall only be located within the first story of the building. Only
one double-sided pedestrian blade sign shall be allowed per business.
4. Vertical building signs may be attached perpendicular to the building facade, projecting out no more than
three feet from the building facade. Vertical signs shall not exceed two feet in width and ten feet in vertical
dimension. Signs shall be located above the first story and shall be set back a minimum of two feet from the
end of the building. Only one vertical sign shall be allowed per applicable storefront. In the event that a
vertical sign is utilized, no sign band shall be permitted.
5. Vacant ground floor spaces shall provide temporary signage applied as a film on the interior of the glazing
with the following conditions:
a. Up to 100 percent of the glazing area may be comprised of urban lifestyle imagery which does not
advertise any specific good, service, or business.
b. Signage advertising a new business or development opportunity for the vacant storefront shall be
limited to 50 percent of the glazing area.
c. Temporary signage may be used in lieu of window treatment requirements as provided in section 18232 of the City Code.
6. Permanent and temporary window signage shall be permitted for up to 25 percent of the glazed area of the
storefront provided such signage shall not unreasonably obstruct views from the street into storefront spaces.

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 1

7. Monument signs shall be permitted for buildings more than two stories located on parcels that have surface
parking lots fronting the intersection of two public streets subject to the following requirements:
a. The commercial building and surface parking lot shall be located in the same parcel. Off-site monument
signs are not permitted.
b. The corner of the surface parking lot shall be located at least 200 feet from the edge of the commercial
building.
c. One monument sign shall be permitted per parcel. The monument sign shall be located at the corner of
the public street and shall provide clearance for the 30-foot visibility triangle.
d. Monument sign shall be located behind the five-foot landscape buffer required for surface parking lots.
For existing surface parking lots, in those cases where there is not enough space, the landscape buffer
in front of the monument sign can be provided within the minimum required setback.
e. The monument sign shall be removed at such time when the site is redeveloped with a new building(s)
consistent with the provisions of this chapter.
f. Architectural requirements.
1. The monument sign must contain two panels joined at a 90-degree angle situated parallel to the
streets which they abut, such that they frame the street corner.
2. The monument sign shall contain architectural treatments, colors and materials that are
compatible with the existing building on the parcel, subject to the approval of the city's planning
manager or designee.
g. Dimensional requirements.
1. Maximum height: four feet
2. Maximum length of each panel: six feet.
3. Minimum setback: according to the street type.
h. Lettering requirements.
1. The base of the monument sign may contain the numerical street address of each building
located on the parcel.
2. The monument sign may contain identification for up to a maximum of four tenants located above
the base of the sign, one of which may be the principal building identification.
3. Letter height of tenant and/or building identification shall not exceed six inches in height.
4. Letters shall be individually mounted. No changeable copy or digital signs are permitted.
5. Tenants identified on the monument sign shall not be identified on any building facade or other
wall or freestanding signs on the site.
i. Landscaping requirements. The monument sign shall be landscaped with low plants and/or shrubs at its
base. A gap in said landscaping is permitted to allow visibility of the building address located on the
base.
j. Illumination requirements.
1. Internally illuminated cabinet and neon signs are prohibited.
2. Indirect lighting is permitted through permanently fixed and encased face lighting from below or in
front the sign surface.
d. Commercial and mixed-uses within residential enclaves planning areas, except PP-PO-R and BPD-R. Those
commercial and mixed-uses approved by right or subject to approval as a class B special use shall comply with
following signage requirements:
1. An external sign band may be applied on the facade of each building provided that it shall not exceed 36
inches in height by 40 percent of the storefront width. The sign band shall be located within the first two
stories of the building. Signage may be permitted on awnings or canopies, but shall be calculated as square
footage against the allowable signage area. Such signs shall not be internally illuminated. External
illumination is permitted.
2. Pedestrian blade signs may be attached perpendicular to the facade projecting out no more than four feet
from the building facade and not exceeding three feet in vertical dimension. Pedestrian blade signs shall be
set back a minimum of two feet from the end of the building or storefront.

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 2

3. One building identity sign shall be allowed on buildings three or more stories in height. Such signs shall not
be internally illuminated and shall not exceed a total sign face of 40 square feet. External illumination is
permitted.
4. Vacant ground floor spaces shall provide a temporary window treatment applied as a film on the interior of the
glazing. The window treatment shall consist of graphic imagery and shall comply with the following design
guidelines:
a. Up to 100 percent of the glazing area may be comprised of urban lifestyle imagery which does not
advertise any specific good, service, or business.
b. Signage advertising a new business or development opportunity for the vacant storefront shall be
limited to 50 percent of the glazing area.
5. Permanent and temporary window signage shall be permitted for up to 25 percent of the glazed area of the
storefront provided such signage shall not unreasonably obstruct views from the street into storefront spaces.
6. Exceptions. In the event of retail, office, or commercial uses permitted within the PP-PO-R or BPD-R, a twosided low-freestanding may be permanently installed in the front setback. Such a sign shall not exceed four
square feet in area for each sign face, nor be higher than five feet at the top, nor be lit in any way. No other
signage shall be permitted.
7. Signage for surface parking lots is allowed according to subsection 94-407(5).
e. Schools and places of worship within residential enclaves. The following signage shall be permitted:
1. One low freestanding sign, located on the lot of the principal structure which shall not exceed four feet in
height and 16 square feet in sign face area. The sign shall be located a minimum of ten feet from any lot line,
and shall not be internally illuminated.
2. One building identity sign shall be allowed on buildings three or more stories in height. Such signs shall not
be internally illuminated and shall not exceed a total sign face of 40 square feet.
3. Bulletin boards shall be permitted subject to section 94-407.
f. Transit facilities. Advertising and commercial signage shall be permitted at publicly-operated transit facilities, subject
to the following requirements:
1. Sign area shall not exceed 24 inches by 36 inches in size.
2. Sign type shall be static content or scrolling content style. Flashing or audible signs shall not be permitted.
3. Signage shall be mounted on publicly-operated transit shelters, with a limit of one per shelter.
4. Signage shall not be located within any public right-of-way.
g. Cultural facility uses. Signage for cultural facility uses shall comply with the following requirements:
1. A low freestanding electronic or manual changeable copy sign shall be permitted for properties within the
urban core planning area with frontage along an avenue as designated by Figure 4 of the DMP Zoning Atlas.
The sign shall be located on the street frontage with the avenue designation or on a corner if both sides are
designated as avenues, subject to the following requirements:
a. Minimum setbacks .
i. From lot line of another lot: 20 feet
ii. From Avenue (back of curb): 32 feet
iii. From intersections of streets with other streets and with access drives: as required by subsection
94-305(e)
b. Dimension requirements:
i. Maximum height: 24 feet
ii. Maximum width: 40 feet
iii. Maximum size per frontage: 400 square feet
c. Architectural requirements:
i. The sign shall not provide information relating to off-site events or performances.
ii. Such sign shall change the message not more than once every five seconds.
iii. Prohibited lighting for manual and electronic changeable copy signs:
1. Lamps or bulbs in excess of 30 watts.
2. Exposed reflectorized lamps or bulbs.

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 3

3. Lamps or bulbs not covered by a lens, filter, louver or sunscreen.
4. Modes of operation that flash.
5. No zooming, twinkling, sparkling, scintillating or revolving sequencing may be displayed. No
display or illumination resembling traffic signals or colors used by police or implying the
need or requirement to stop may be displayed. Video shall not be permitted.
iv. Signs shall not produce noise such as audio tracks, sound effects, etc.
v. Signs shall not be allowed to project video.
d. Only one low freestanding electronic or manual changeable copy sign, shall be permitted for each
cultural facility. A corner sign shall be counted as one sign. If a low freestanding sign is proposed, no
wall mounted sign shall be permitted.
2. A wall-mounted electronic or manual changeable copy sign shall be permitted for cultural facility uses within
urban core planning area districts, special districts planning area and residential enclaves planning area,
except within residential subdistricts, subject to the following requirements:
a. Dimension requirements:
i. Maximum height: 7 feet.
ii. Maximum width: 60 percent of applicable storefront width.
b. Architectural requirements:
i. Such sign shall change the message not more than once every five seconds.
ii. Prohibited lighting for manual and electronic changeable copy sign:
1. Lamps or bulbs in excess of 30 watts.
2. Modes of operation that flash.
3. No zooming, twinkling, sparkling, scintillating or revolving sequencing may be displayed. No
display or illumination resembling traffic signals or colors used by police or implying the
need or requirement to stop may be displayed. Video shall not be permitted.
iii. Permitted lighting:
1. Exposed bulbs are permitted along the perimeter of the sign, but shall not twinkle or rotate
in sequence.
iv. Signs shall not produce noise such as audio tracks, sound effects.
v. Signs shall not be allowed to project video.
c. Such wall mounted sign shall count towards the total size permitted for all wall mounted sign bands for
the building frontage.
d. Only one such electronic or manual copy wall mounted sign shall be permitted per cultural facility. A
corner sign shall be counted as one sign.
(Ord. No. 4213-09, § 6 (Exh. A), 6-29-2009; Ord. No. 4380-11, § 1, 11-14-2011; Ord. No. 4417-12, § 1, 4-16-2012; Ord.
No. 4820-18, § 3, 1-28-2019; Ord. No. 4858-19, § 1 (Exh. A), 09-09-2019)

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 4

