Sec. 94-107. - Demolition requirements.
a. Intent. Demolished structures result in vacant lots which can contribute to the perception of blight in the downtown
area. Further, some vacant structures may have significant historic value and their demolition would be an
irreversible loss to the community. Sustainable communities that aim to reduce their carbon footprint should place a
greater emphasis on the renovation and reuse of existing structures. These requirements describe the mechanisms
for protecting important building fabric in the downtown area.
b. Demolition of existing buildings. The demolition of existing buildings shall comply with the following requirements:
1. Designated historic structures proposed for demolition shall comply with section 94-49.
2. Existing buildings may not be destroyed or removed unless they are to be replaced according to these urban
regulations and only after a building permit which affects the vertical construction for the new building has
been obtained by the property owner or developer. Permits which affect vertical construction include the
foundation, vibro-flotation, soil mixing, pressure grouting and full building permits. Clearing and grubbing and
underground utilities and site work permits are not considered permits which affect vertical construction. The
final building permit for the new building shall be applied for within 30 days of issuance of the demolition
permit and shall be diligently responded to by the applicant. Vertical construction shall commence within six
months of the issuance of the building permit. The application and/or building permit will expire in the event of
six months of inactivity or failure to progress with the application or construction, or as otherwise provided in
the local amendments to the Florida Building Code adopted by the city. In the event that vertical construction
has not commenced within six months, the site shall be restored to grade, tilled, sodded, and irrigated. Any
temporary construction fence shall also be removed.
3. Before issuance of a demolition permit, the property owner shall obtain and keep in force a policy or policies
of general liability and property damage insurance in an amount to be determined by the city for combined
single limit, per occurrence, bodily injury, and property damage. A certificate of insurance shall be submitted
to the city prior to issuance of the demolition permit and shall name the city as an additional insured party.
4. Unsafe structures as defined by the Standard Unsafe Building Abatement Code adopted by the city may
receive an emergency demolition order from the city building official due to unsafe structure conditions.
5. The DAC may also authorize the demolition of a structure on sites with contamination identified by a site
environmental study.
6. The DAC may authorize the demolition of a structure to allow the creation of an urban open space. The urban
open space shall be conveyed to the city or other public entity, and shall be rezoned as an urban open space.
c. Demolition standards. Unless otherwise provided in subsection 94-107(b), DAC may approve the request for a
demolition upon the finding that the petition satisfies each of the following standards:
1. There exists a significant economic hardship to rehabilitate and reuse the structure based upon the structural
condition of the building and practicality of rehabilitation and reuse.
2. The demolition will not cause significant harm to the public's interest due to the lack of architectural or historic
significance of the building.
3. The structure does not maintain the continuity, scale and massing of adjacent structures and the structure
lacks prominence within the block or its relationship to adjacent structures.
4. The structure's reuse is inconsistent with the goals and intent of the specific district in which it is located.
5. The removal of the structure will enhance the public safety, health, and welfare of downtown resident and
visitors.
6. Due to the structure's condition and level of deterioration, it would be impractical to board and secure the
structure.
If the demolition request does not satisfy each of the demolition standards, the request shall be denied.
d. Demolition materials. Any proposed demolitions of a building larger than 50,000 square feet shall divert 50 percent
of construction, demolition, and land clearing debris from landfill disposal by developing a waste management plan
which quantifies material diversion goals. Calculations can be done by weight or volume, but must be consistent
throughout as described in the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Standards for Materials

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 1

and Resources, Credit 2. Hazardous waste and excavation soil may not be included in the calculations. Structures
which are to be demolished due to environmental contamination are not required to fulfill this standard.
Before issuance of a demolition permit, the property owner shall pay a sustainability deposit to the city in an amount
established by resolution of the city commission, in addition to any other deposits or bonds required by the city. The
architect or contractor shall certify the implementation of this requirement 60 days after the demolition of the structure
through the submittal of a report to the planning department. If diversion requirement is met, deposit is returned to
applicant, if diversion requirement is not met, deposit will be forfeited to the city.
(Ord. No. 4213-09, ยง 6 (Exh. A), 6-29-2009)

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 2

