Sec. 94-407. - Signs permitted in all districts.
The following signs shall be permitted in all districts:
1. Residential unit nameplate signs. Low freestanding signs with one or two faces and wall mounted signs with one
face shall be permitted subject to the following controls:
a. Permitted content: the name of the occupant and the address of the residential unit to which the sign is an
accessory. In addition, signs permitted pursuant to this section may contain any noncommercial message
which has not been declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be obscene, defamatory or otherwise
contrary to law.
b. Maximum area: one square foot per face.
c. Maximum number: one per dwelling unit.
d. Location: on the same lot as the residential unit which the sign identifies.
e. Maximum height:
1. Low freestanding: four feet.
2. Wall mounted: no higher than the wall on which it is mounted.
2. Residential development permanent identification signs. Low freestanding signs with one or two faces shall be
permitted subject to the following controls:
a. Permitted content: the name, logo and address (if applicable) of the residential development identified. Types
of residential developments which may be so identified include subdivisions, condominiums, apartments, and
mobile home parks. In addition, signs permitted pursuant to this section may contain any noncommercial
message which has not been declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be obscene, defamatory, or
otherwise contrary to law.
b. Maximum area:
1. Under 50 residential units: 32 square feet per face.
2. 50 or more residential units: 48 square feet per face.
c. Maximum number: one per entrance to the development, but no two signs for the same development shall be
within 500 feet of each other.
d. Location: within 100 feet of the entrance of the development which it identifies.
e. Minimum setbacks:
1. From lot line of any property located outside the development: 20 feet.
2. From public rights-of-way: 15 feet if all sign faces placed parallel to the street and 20 feet if one or more
sign faces not placed parallel to the street.
3. From intersections of streets with other streets and with access drives: as required by subsection 94305(e).
f. Maximum height:
1. Freestanding: four feet.
2. Wall-mounted: no higher than the wall on which it is mounted.
3. Identification signs for nonresidential uses. Low freestanding signs with one or two faces and wall mounted signs
with one face shall be permitted subject to the following controls:
a. Permitted content: the name, logo and and address of the building to which the sign is accessory; the name,
logo, address of occupants of the building, and other related information. In addition, signs permitted pursuant
to this section may contain any noncommercial message which has not been declared by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be obscene, defamatory, or otherwise contrary to law.
b. Maximum area: 20 square feet.
c. Maximum number: one per lot.

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 1

d. Location: on the principal structure of the use to which it is an accessory, unless such structure is more than
20 feet from the nearest right-of-way, then on the same lot as the use which the sign identifies.
e. Minimum setbacks:
1. From lot line of another lot: 20 feet.
2. From public rights-of-way: 15 feet if all sign faces placed parallel to the street, and 20 feet if one or
more signs faces not placed parallel to the street.
3. From intersections of streets with other streets and with access drives: as required by subsection 94305(e).
f. Maximum height:
1. Low freestanding: six feet.
2. Wall mounted: no higher than the wall on which it is mounted.
g. Additional limitations: on any lot in which a sign is established under the provisions of section 94-408.
4. Bulletin boards for houses of worship (manual or electronic). In addition to signs permitted pursuant to this section,
freestanding manual or electronic bulletin boards with one or two faces and wall mounted manual or electronic
bulletin boards with one face shall be permitted for houses of worship subject to the following controls:
a. Permitted content: Any information related directly or indirectly to the activities of the house of worship. In
addition, signs permitted pursuant to this section may contain any noncommercial message which has not
been declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be obscene, defamatory, or otherwise contrary to law.
b. Content change: Signs permitted pursuant to this section shall be permitted to change its message no more
than four times within a 24-hour period.
c. Maximum area: 20 square feet per face.
d. Maximum number: one per lot.
e. Location: on the same lot as the use to which it is accessory.
f. Minimum setbacks:
1. From lot line of another lot: 20 feet.
2. From public right-of-way: 15 feet if all sign faces placed parallel to the street and 20 feet if one or more
sign faces not placed parallel to the street.
3. From intersections of streets with other streets and with access drives as required by subsection 94305(e).
g. Maximum height:
1. Low freestanding: six feet.
2. Wall-mounted: 12 feet.
h. Prohibited lighting for an electronic message sign:
1. Lamps or bulbs in excess of 30 watts.
2. Exposed reflectorized lamps or bulbs.
3. Lamps or bulbs not covered by a lens, filter, louver or sunscreen.
4. Modes of operation that scroll, flash, zoom, twinkle or sparkle.
5. Parking area identification signs. Low-freestanding signs with one or two faces and wall mounted signs with one
face shall be permitted subject to the following controls:
a. Permitted content: designation of entrance and exit points, including directional arrows.
b. Maximum area: four square feet per sign face.
c. Maximum number: one per entrance and exit.
d. Location: on the same lot as the parking area to which it is accessory.
e. Minimum setbacks:
1. From lot line of another lot: 20 feet.
2. From public rights-of-way: zero feet.
3. From intersections of streets with other streets and with access drives: as required by subsection 94305(e).

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 2

6.

7.

8.

9.

f. Maximum height:
1. Low-freestanding: six feet.
2. Wall-mounted: 12 feet.
Parking area instructional and related signs. Low freestanding signs with one or two faces and wall-mounted signs
with one face shall be permitted subject to the following controls:
a. Permitted content: the direction of traffic flow within a parking or loading area, areas where no parking is
permitted; identification of parking spaces reserved for other specific groups or for individuals, and other
similar information.
b. Maximum area: not larger than is necessary to be visible to site where they are located, and subject to site
plan review authority approval.
c. Maximum number: as necessary to regulate traffic flow, parking, loading, handicapped, and reserved parking;
and subject to site plan review authority approval.
d. Location: on the same lot as the parking and other vehicular circulation areas to which they are accessory.
e. Minimum setbacks:
1. From lot line of another lot: subject to site plan review authority approval pursuant to site plan review.
2. From public rights-of-way: subject to site plan review authority approval pursuant to site plan review.
3. From intersections of streets with other streets and with access drives: as required by subsection 94305(e).
f. Maximum height:
1. Wall-mounted: no higher than the wall on which is mounted.
2. Low freestanding: six feet.
Temporary signs accessory to development of residential and nonresidential uses. A low freestanding sign with one
or two faces and wall mounted signs with one face shall be permitted subject to the following controls:
a. Permitted content: identification of home or home sites, condominiums, apartments, or mobile homes sites for
sale, rent, or lease in a residential development under construction; and/or identification of nonresidential
development under construction. Signs may include identification of developers, contractor, architects,
engineers, real estate agents, and other related information.
b. Maximum area: 200 square feet per face.
c. Maximum number: one per 500 feet or fraction thereof of each street frontage.
d. Location: within 100 feet of the entrance to the development it identifies.
e. Minimum setbacks: 20 feet from the lot line of any property located outside the development.
f. Upon final certificate of occupancy of a completed residential or nonresidential structure, such sign shall be
removed.
g. Illegally placed temporary signs shall be removed by or at the expense of the owner or individual responsible
for the illegal placement.
Temporary construction fences. Construction fences for permitted, commenced construction projects may:
a. In an area not to exceed 200 square feet per street frontage provide text identifying the developer, architect,
contractor, lenders, future tenants and other professionals hired to develop the project and a rendering of the
proposed project.
b. Provide an unlimited amount of graphics and artwork not related to or advertising the construction project or
any other products or services and not containing any lewd or obscene visuals.
c. In addition to the above, construction fences for public non-profit construction projects may provide copy
identifying individual sponsors of the construction project in an area not to exceed 15 percent of the face of
the fence.
d. In an area not to exceed ten percent of the face of the fence per street frontage, provide text and/or graphics
advertising governmental institutions. Such advertising shall be located a minimum of ten feet from any other
text and/or graphics.
Temporary real estate "For Sale," "For Lease," and "For Rent" signs. Low freestanding signs with one of two faces
and wall-mounted signs with one face shall be permitted subject to the following controls:

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 3

a. Permitted content: the name, logo, address, and telephone number of the real estate agent or owner, offering
the property on which it is located for sale, lease, or rent; and other related information.
b. Maximum area:
1. For residential uses: six square feet per sign face.
2. For nonresidential uses: 16 square feet per sign face.
c. Maximum number: one sign per lot.
d. Location: on the lot advertised for sale.
e. Minimum setbacks:
1. From lot line of another lot: 20 feet.
2. From public rights-of-way: 15 feet if all sign faces placed parallel to the street and 20 feet if one or more
sign faces are not placed parallel to the street.
3. From intersections of streets with other streets and with access drives: as required by subsection 94305(e).
f. Maximum height: six feet.
g. Time limit: Signs permitted pursuant to this section shall be removed as soon as 90 percent of the residential
units and/or 90 percent of the leasable or saleable floor area of the development to which they are
appurtenant is sold, rented, or leased to any purchaser other than the original developer.
h. Illegally placed temporary signs shall be removed by or at the expense of the owner or individual responsible
for the illegal placement.
10. Temporary political signs pertaining to specific elections.
a. Permitted content: any message urging the election or defeat of any candidate seeking any political office or
urging the passage or defeat of any ballot measure.
b. Maximum area: the total aggregate sign area for all such signs on a lot shall be 20 square feet. The maximum
freestanding sign area shall be proportioned to its distance to the nearest public right-of-way or other public
property as follows:
MAXIMUM SIGN AREA

DISTANCE TO THE NEAREST PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY
OR OTHER PUBLIC PROPERTY

6 square feet
12 square feet
20 square feet

5 to 50 feet
50 to 100 feet
Over 100 feet

c. Maximum number:
1. Freestanding signs: one sign per lot.
2. Wall-mounted signs: no limit, but subject to the maximum area limit set forth in subsection (9)b of this
section.
d. Location: only on lots where the property owner has given permission. The placing of temporary political
signs anywhere on public property is prohibited. Temporary political signs located on public property shall be
deemed to be public property and shall be summarily removed by the city.
e. Minimum setbacks:
1. From lot line of another lot: five feet.
2. From public right-of-way line: five feet.
3. From intersections of streets with other streets and with access drives: as required by subsection 94305(e).
f. Maximum height:
1. Freestanding: six feet.
2. Wall mounted: no higher than the building wall on which it is mounted.

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 4

11.

12.

13.

14.

g. Time limit: signs permitted pursuant to this section shall be removed within 48 hours after the day of the
election to which they apply.
h. Permit requirements: no sign permit required.
i. Illegally placed temporary signs shall be removed by or at the expense of the owner or individual responsible
for the illegal placement.
Temporary garage sale and yard sale signs. Low freestanding signs with one or two faces, and wall-mounted signs
with one face shall be permitted subject to the following controls:
a. Permitted content: type of sale, the address, dates and hours of the sale, and directional information, and
other related information.
b. Maximum area: six square feet per face.
c. Maximum number: not more than one per lot, nor three per sale.
d. Location: only on lots where the property owner has given permission.
e. Minimum setbacks:
1. From lot line of another lot: 20 feet.
2. From public rights-of-way: zero feet.
3. From intersections of streets with other streets and with access drives: as required by subsection 94305(e).
f. Maximum height:
1. Low freestanding: six feet.
2. Wall-mounted: six feet.
g. Illegally placed temporary signs shall be removed by or at the expense of the owner or individual responsible
for the illegal placement.
Temporary signs for special events. Signs announcing and promoting special events may be displayed pursuant to
the issuance of a special event permit and the regulations set forth in Chapter 78, Article VI.- Special Events of this
code.
Noncommercial free expression signs. Low freestanding signs with one or two faces shall be permitted as
accessory to any use subject to the following controls:
a. Permitted content: any thought, idea, sentiment, opinion, or any political, philosophical, religious, aesthetic or
other expression which does not promote, advertise or solicit for, by content or design, any commercial
business, product or service; and which has not been declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be
obscene, defamatory, or otherwise contrary to law.
b. Maximum area: six square feet per face.
c. Maximum number: one sign per lot. Such sign shall be permitted in addition to all other signs permitted by
this article.
d. Location: on the same lot as the use to which it is accessory.
e. Minimum setbacks:
1. From lot line of another lot: 20 feet.
2. From public rights-of-way: zero feet.
3. From intersections of streets with other streets and with access drives: as required by subsection 94305(e).
f. Maximum height:
1. Wall-mounted: six feet.
2. Low freestanding: four feet.
g. Illegally placed temporary signs shall be removed by or at the expense of the owner or individual responsible
for the illegal placement.
Changeable copy event signs for theaters, indoor motion pictures and live performances (manual or electronic).
a. Content: the name, logo and address of the building and building occupant to which the sign is accessory and
other information relating to on-site films, events and performances. Signs permitted pursuant to this section
shall be permitted to change their message no more than four times within a 24-hour period.

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 5

b. Maximum sum total area of changeable copy event signage: pursuant to zoning district regulations of section
94-408.
c. Maximum number of changeable copy event signs: two manual or electronic message signs for each
individual lot or business.
d. Minimum setbacks for freestanding event signs: pursuant to zoning district regulations of section 94-408.
e. Maximum height: pursuant to zoning district regulations of section 94-408.
f. Prohibited lighting for electronic message sign:
1. Lamps or bulbs in excess of 30 watts.
2. Modes of operation that scroll, flash, zoom, twinkle or sparkle.
3. Lamps or bulbs not covered by a lens, filter, louver or sunscreen.
4. Exposed reflectorized lamps or bulbs.
15. Changeable copy event signs for auditoriums, convention centers, stadiums, sport arenas and regional attraction
facilities (manual or electronic).
a. Content: the name, logo and address of the building and building occupant to which the sign is accessory and
other information relating to on-site events and performances. Signs permitted pursuant to this section shall
be permitted to change their message not more than once per two second period.
b. Maximum sum total area of changeable copy event signage: pursuant to zoning district regulations of section
94-408.
c. Maximum number of changeable copy event signs: two manual or electronic message signs for each
individual facility.
d. Minimum setbacks for freestanding event signs: pursuant to zoning district regulations of section 94-408.
e. Maximum height: pursuant to zoning district regulations of section 94-408.
f. Prohibited lighting for electronic message sign:
1. Lamps or bulbs in excess of 30 watts.
2. Exposed reflectorized lamps or bulbs.
3. Lamps or bulbs not covered by a lens, filter, louver or sunscreen.
4. Modes of operation that scroll, flash, zoom, twinkle or sparkle.
g. Location: electronic message signs shall only be located on roadways classified as arterial or expressways.
16. On-premises banners shall only be permitted for not-for-profit cultural facilities and the Palm Beach County
Convention Center to announce limited events such as public functions or fundraising events for charitable,
educational, civic, or similar purposes in all zoning districts, provided the following conditions are met:
a. A one-time informal site plan review approval is required for all banner locations and size. Additional banners,
locations or square footage than previously approved requires new informal site plan review approval. As part
of the application process the applicant must complete a detailed sign program to include:
1. A copy of a plot plan showing the proposed locations where the banners are to be mounted;
2. A photometric plan; and
3. The dimensional elevations of the building facades or light pole detail upon which the banner is to be
located.
b. The program shall meet the following requirements:
1. Banners may be located on a light pole or on a building facade;
2. Banner designs shall be consistent with the building's architecture, scale and proportions;
3. Banners applied to the facade of the building shall be located with respect to the building's architecture
and shall not obscure windows or other architectural elements;
4. The total number of banners shall not exceed four (4) per street front;
5. Banner Size:
a. Maximum size for banners mounted on buildings: The maximum total area of the banners shall
not exceed five percent of the surface area of the building's street facade or 40 square feet,
whichever is greater.
b. Maximum size for all other banners: 40 square feet.

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 6

c. All structures holding or supporting banners are subject to final approval during the building permit process.
d. Banners for special events may be displayed no longer than 30 days before the event and shall be removed
within seven days after the event. The event date must be stated on the banner. The planning director or
designee may approve up to a 30-day extension prior to the event upon a showing of just cause.
e. Light poles with banners shall be a minimum of five feet from the property line and no portion of the banner
shall extend into the public right-of-way.
f. A banner's highest point shall not exceed the highest point of the building or pole upon which it is mounted.
g. The minimum clearance of banners above the finished grade shall be eight feet.
h. Banners must present a professional appearance and shall be maintained in good condition.
i. Banner content is limited to the announcement of special events. A banner may include an acknowledgement
of corporate sponsors provided such acknowledgement meets the following criteria:
1. Total acknowledgment does not exceed an area of ten percent of the banner surface area; and
2. Acknowledgement content is limited to "sponsored by," followed by the name of the corporate sponsor;
and
3. Acknowledgement of multiple corporate sponsors must be contained in the same location.
(Code 1979, § 33-156; Ord. No. 3725-04, § 2, 2-2-2004; Ord. No. 3770-04, § 2, 5-10-2004; Ord. No. 3977-06, § 2, 8-142006; Ord. No. 4244-09, § 1, 12-14-2009; Ord. No. 4976-21, § 5, 02-07-2022)

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 7

