Sec. 94-173. - Industrial light (IL) district.
The industrial light district is designated primarily for areas of light manufacturing, wholesaling, warehousing, assembly or
product processing, and other light industrial uses. The industrial light district is established to provide areas for industry in
locations that are not feasible or highly desirable for heavier industrial development because of proximity to residential,
recreational and other uses that have the potential to be incompatible. This district permits uses that are compatible with
uses of residential property adjoining or surrounding the district, with suitable open spaces, landscaping and parking area,
which emits limited noise, odors, or light which can be detected on surrounding land. The following areas are zoned
industrial light:
Northwood Area —There are two separate industrial light districts located in this area. The first is located south of
27th Street and north of Service Street between Windsor Avenue and the FEC railroad tracks and is occupied by
motor vehicle repair uses, tile and marble uses. The second district is located south of 25th Street and north of
23rd Street between 25th Court and the FEC Railroad tracks and is occupied by a salvage yard, church,
automotive repair business, warehouses and vacant land.
45th and I-95 —This industrial light district is located on the northwest corner of I-95 and 45th Street. This district is
comprised of three parcels that are occupied within automotive and entertainment uses.
Corporate Way —This light industrial district is located on Corporate Way, north of 45th Street east of I-95. This
area is comprised of office buildings/flex spaces that are occupied with office and retail related uses. This area
permits office uses.
Old Okeechobee Road/Florida Mango Area —This district is located south of Okeechobee Boulevard, west of
Australian Avenue and north Belvedere Road and is primarily comprised of office/flex space buildings, warehouses,
small wholesaler business, schools and office buildings.
Georgia Avenue —This district is located between Southern Boulevard and Hunter Street on the west side of
Georgia Avenue. This area is comprised of automotive repair business, outside storage business, wholesale
businesses, warehouses and some retail uses.
Development standards in the industrial light district shall be as follows:
1. Minimum lot dimensions:
a. Lot area: 5,000 square feet.
b. Lot width: 50 feet.
2. Minimum setbacks:
a. Minimum setback from property line adjoining public right-of-way: zero feet.
b. Minimum setback from property line not adjoining public right-of-way: a minimum setback of at least 15 feet
(buffer) will be provided when abutting residential districts; in all other areas: zero feet.
3. Maximum lot coverage by building: 60 percent.
4. Maximum lot coverage by impervious surface: 85 percent.
5. Maximum building height: 50 feet.
6. Minimum required open space and landscape areas:
a. Minimum required open space area: 40 percent.
b. Minimum required landscape area: 15 percent.
7. Maximum floor area ratio:
a. 0.75
b. Planned development: 0.75
(Ord. No. 4660-16, § 4, 12-5-2016)

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 1

