Sec. 94-41. - Applications.
a. Procedures for submitting and processing applications.
1. Forms provided by the city. When the submission of an application is required prior to review or action by the
city, the applicant shall utilize forms provided, as applicable, by the planning department.
2. Determination of necessary permits and reviews required. When the planning department provides an
applicant with the required application, the applicant shall be advised regarding the types of permits and
review procedures necessary to proceed with the proposed amendment, development use, or activity. The
applicant shall be advised to request a preapplication conference to become familiar with city review
procedures.
3. Optional preapplication conference. The preapplication conference is suggested to the applicant to avoid
unnecessary delays or confusion in the application and review processes. If requested, an informal meeting
will be arranged among the applicant, planning department staff, building and zoning department staff, and
other appropriate city staff to discuss the proposal and to review any preliminary plans the applicant may wish
to present.
4. Applications. Before an amendment, development activity or use shall be considered, an application for
approval shall be filed with the planning department or the building and zoning department, as applicable.
a. Format. The application shall be in accordance with the form prescribed by the planning and zoning
administrator and approved by the mayor, copies of which may be obtained from the appropriate
department. A written power of attorney authorizing a person other than the property owner to sign an
application must accompany the application.
b. Filing. Applications shall be filed at such times as prescribed by the planning and zoning administrator.
c. Fees. Fees for all applications required by this chapter shall be established and amended by resolution
of the city commission. Fees shall be charged in an amount to compensate the city for costs incurred to
process an application. Such costs include, but are not limited to, public notice advertisements; public
notice postage; and planning, engineering, scientific, technical, and related professional and staff
services necessary to process the application.
d. Disclosure of ownership. All applications shall include a verified statement showing each person having
a legal, equitable, or beneficial ownership interest in the property for which the application is submitted.
However, corporations shall provide only the names and addresses of the corporation and principal
executive officers.
e. Submission of fee and application prior to action by city. Prior to action taken by a department or official
body of the city concerning a specific amendment or development activity, an applicant must submit the
proper fee and an official application to the planning and zoning administrator.
5. Preliminary review for completeness. The planning and zoning administrator, within ten working days
following the submission of an application and fee, shall determine whether or not the application satisfies all
requirements. If it is determined that there are deficiencies in the application, the applicant shall be notified of
the deficient items. When one or more deficiencies exist, the department shall take no further action on the
application until the applicant submits the required information.
6. Initiation of review. The planning and zoning administrator shall commence review of the application after a
determination that the application is complete.
7. Review of appropriate standards and criteria. Subsequent to the submission of a completed application, the
application shall be reviewed by the city based on the standards and criteria provided in this chapter.
(Code 1979, ยง 33-21)

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 1

