Sec. 94-34. - Code enforcement.
a. Zoning code administrator. The planning and zoning administrator shall administer and enforce this zoning code.
The planning and zoning administrator shall serve as the coordinating and central intake agency for all applications,
petitions, or administrative actions sought in pursuance of this zoning code. The planning and zoning administrator
shall perform other zoning-related duties which are set forth in this chapter and which may be assigned by the
mayor. The planning and zoning administrator shall interpret and apply the provisions of this chapter as minimum
requirements for the promotion of the public health, safety, and welfare. This chapter is not intended to interfere
with, abrogate, or annul any lawful easement, covenants, or other agreements between parties; provided, however,
that where this chapter imposes a greater restriction, the provisions of this chapter shall prevail.
b. Violations and enforcement procedures.
1. Planning and zoning administrator investigations. The planning and zoning administrator or his designee shall
have the authority to investigate alleged violations of this chapter by inspecting property, obtaining the signed
statements of prospective witnesses, obtaining photographic documentation of violations, and performing
such other activities as are lawful and necessary for the complete investigation of alleged zoning violations.
Such designee shall be a planner employed by the city and shall be designated in writing by the planning and
zoning administrator.
2. Violations. Where it is determined that a violation of this chapter exists, the planning and zoning administrator
or his designee shall notify the violator in writing and order compliance. The planning and zoning
administrator or his designee shall order discontinuance of an illegal use of land, buildings, or structures;
removal of illegal buildings or structures, or additions, alterations, or structural changes thereof; or
discontinuance of any illegal work being done. If a violation of these regulations continues, the planning and
zoning administrator or his designee shall commence appropriate legal action.
3. Cease and desist orders. The planning and zoning administrator or his designee shall have the authority to
issue cease and desist orders to the appropriate property owner or individual whenever a violation of this
zoning code has been committed or exists.
c. Zoning compliance. Zoning compliance shall be determined by the planning and zoning administrator prior to
issuance of a building permit to allow the construction, renovation, alteration, addition to, or moving of any building
or structure. Zoning compliance shall be required to establish or change a use of an existing or proposed structure.
The proposed construction of improvements and the proposed establishment or change of use necessitating a
review for zoning compliance must conform to the requirements of this Code and must be consistent with the
comprehensive plan.
d. Zoning compliance and certificate of occupancy required. (Note: Additional language to be drafted.)
(Code 1979, ยง 33-14)

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 1

