Sec. 94-222. - Coleman Park overlay.
a. Intent. The intent of the development standards for Coleman Park is to reinforce the existing architectural character;
to create a place of common vision and physical predictability for all new construction and renovations; and to
provide areas for the concentration of compatible land uses that are complementary to the surrounding residential
neighborhood. This intent will be achieved by adding certain criteria to reinforce the quality of life, and to assist in
the removal of blight and to discourage noxious uses.
b. District boundaries. The development standards shall be utilized for properties located within the Coleman Park
district. Coleman Park is generally bounded on the north by 25th Street, Palm Beach Lakes Boulevard on the south,
and the FEC and CSX railroad tracks on the east and west, respectively, as shown in more detail on the Coleman
Park overlay district regulating map.
c. Prohibited. In order to maintain predictability in development, planned communities and height variances shall be
prohibited. Planned developments are only permitted with in the CP-MF32 overlay districts.
d. Variances; appeals. Variances from the dimensional requirements or waivers from any other criterion may be
approved by the zoning board of appeals, provided that the applicant meets the standards pertaining to such
variance or waiver. The zoning board of appeals shall hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is an error
in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the planning and zoning administrator in the
enforcement of these development regulations.
e. General development standards.
1. The Coleman Park (CP) overlay regulations consist of these regulations and the Coleman Park overlay
regulating map.
2. The provisions of the Coleman Park overlay shall take precedence over the existing zoning and land
development regulations in the event of a conflict.
3. The provisions of the building code shall take precedence over the provisions of the Coleman Park overlay in
the event of a conflict.
4. The regulating map designates the locations of the zoning sub-districts.
5. Planned developments within the area affected by the Coleman Park overlay shall give consideration to the
existing character of development in the Coleman Park neighborhood and shall comply with section 94226(h) except a minimum of ten percent of the site area shall be dedicated to the creation of open space and
shall comply with section 94-222(g).
6. Automatic food and drink machines must be located inside buildings.
7. The design of civic buildings shall be subject to these regulations.
f. Parking standards.
1. Parking shall conform to the requirements of ARTICLE XV of this chapter, except as specifically specified
otherwise in these Coleman Park overlay regulations.
2. Parking parks shall be allowed on existing vacant lots in the residential districts with the following
requirements:
a. The surface parking lot shall directly abut a commercial parcel along Tamarind Avenue.
b. Seventy-five percent of the lot shall be finished with reinforced grass, permeable pavers or pavers with
areas for grass plugs.
c. A five-foot landscape buffer is required along property lines adjacent to residential properties.
d. All surface parking lots shall be landscaped in accordance with the requirements of Chapter 94.
e. A class B special use permit is required to establish a parking park.
3. Surface parking lots for new developments shall be constructed behind buildings and shall be landscaped in
accordance with the requirements of Chapter 94. No new surface parking lots shall be created on vacant lots
on Tamarind Avenue, 15th Street or Palm Beach Lakes Boulevard unless the parcel is unified with a
commercially zoned parcel. In such cases, the surface parking lot shall be landscaped in accordance with the
requirements of Chapter 94.

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 1

g. Open space standards. Open space for Coleman Park shall be designed in accordance with the standards listed
below:
1. Urban park. A continuous area for pedestrians which is open from the ground level to the sky for its entire
width and length, with the exception of recreational equipment or pedestrian amenities such as benches or
lighting, which fronts on a street or sidewalk and which is directly accessible by foot to the public during
daylight hours for scenic or leisure purposes.
Minimum area: 10,000 square feet
Minimum width: 50 feet.
2. Plaza: A continuous area for pedestrians which is open from the ground level to the sky for its entire width
and length, which fronts on a street or sidewalk, and which is directly accessible to the public at all times for
use by the public for passive recreational purposes. An existing unimproved area between or next to a
building or buildings shall not qualify. The plaza shall be located at street grade.
Minimum area: 1,000 square feet.
Maximum area: 43,000 square feet.
Required width: The width of the plaza shall be generally wider than deep. However, the width shall not
exceed 2.5 times the depth.
3. Street garden: A continuous area for pedestrians which is open from the ground level to the sky for its entire
width and length, the primary feature of which is a landscaping scheme that incorporates garden elements
including trees, palms, shrubs, or ground cover, as well as water elements including a fountain or pond. The
urban garden shall be located adjacent to a sidewalk, cross-block connection, pedestrian arcade, or building
lobby and accessible on at least one side of its perimeter.
Minimum area: 1,000 square feet.
Maximum area: 5,000 square feet.
Required width: The width of the urban garden shall be generally wider than deep. However, the width shall
not exceed 2.5 times the depth.
4. Courtyard: An uncovered area for pedestrians partly or wholly enclosed by buildings or walls and used
primarily for supplying access, light, and air to abutting buildings. The courtyard shall be accessible from a
public street or semipublic interior room and located at grade.
Spatial ratios - height to width: Min. = 1:1
Max. = 1.5:1
Required width: The width of the courtyard shall be generally wider than deep. However, the width shall not
exceed 2.5 times the depth.
5. Pocket park or snippet: A small sitting area for relaxation and people watching. Varying sizes permitted. The
primary purpose of this feature is to provide seating. The interior of the space shall be visible from the
entrance.
6. Arcade: A continuous roofed or covered and unglazed portion of a building with supporting columns or piers
that extends over a walkway or sidewalk and connects to another arcade, public space, prominent
architectural or landscape feature, or other such pedestrian amenities. The arcade shall be accessible from
streets, sidewalks or public spaces.
Minimum width: 12 feet clear.
Minimum height: 14 feet.
7. Cross-block connection: A continuous passage for pedestrians that connects two streets with a system of
lobbies, pedestrian streets or sidewalks or other prominent architectural or landscape feature, or pedestrian
amenities. The cross-block connection shall be accessible from streets, sidewalks or public spaces.
Minimum width: 10 feet clear.
Maximum width: 16 feet clear.

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 2

Interior proportion - height to width: 1:1 min. Where covered, heights should be dimensionally consistent with
the principle lobby ceiling, but not less than 12 feet clear.
h. Architectural standards: Architectural standards for Coleman Park shall be as follows:
1. Exterior finish material may include stone, brick, stucco, exposed concrete, ceramic tile, any stone cladding
material, limestone, precast concrete, clapboard siding, fiber cement siding and wood shingles. Walls shall
combine no more than two materials and shall change material along a horizontal line, with the visually
heavier material below the lighter material. Vinyl and aluminum siding shall be prohibited.
2. Front facing garden walls and fences shall be 48 inches in height.
3. Rear garden walls and fences not facing streets shall be 48 to 72 inches in height. Garden walls and fences
shall consist of painted, stained, or pressure treated wood pickets, plastic coated chain link, decorative metal,
indigenous rock, or block and stucco.
4. All buildings shall have their principal pedestrian entrance(s), inclusive of flat, stepped or sloped walkways, on
the frontage line, connecting the front entrance of the primary structures with the street.
5. Windows shall be vertical or square in proportion.
6. Windows shall be recessed a minimum of two inches from the exterior face of the facade.
7. All windows shall be operable.
8. Multiple windows in the same rough opening shall be separated by a four-inch wide post and sit on one
continuous sill.
9. If shutters are used, they must be operable, sized to match the opening, and provided for all windows on a
given wall.
10. Sliding door shall only be allowed on rear facades. All other exterior doors shall be hinged, except garage
doors.
11. Garages shall be setback a minimum of five feet behind the front Façade for front facing garage doors.
i. Signage: The signage requirements shall determine size, placement, and number of signs permitted for the subdistricts to support the identification of commerce and civic uses, provide consistency and continuity, and protect
each district from the clutter and negative visual impact of excess signage.
1. Requirements which apply to all districts.
a. Except as specifically provided in this section, the sign regulations in ARTICLE XIII of this chapter shall
also apply.
b. Audible, flashing, paper signs, and internally illuminated box-signs are prohibited. Signs with visible
backs are prohibited. Monuments signs are prohibited except as expressly provided in this section.
c. Calculation of sign face area shall be in accordance with the method established in section 94-405.
2. Coleman Park neighborhood commercial districts. Signage for commercial uses shall comply with the
following requirements:
a. One building identity sign shall be allowed on buildings. Corner building shall be allowed one identity
per Façade along each street frontage line. Such signs shall not be internally illuminated and shall not
exceed a total sign face of 40 square feet each.
b. An external sign band may be applied on the facade of each building provided that it shall not exceed
36 inches in height by 60 percent of the applicable storefront width. Signage may be permitted on
awnings or canopies, but shall be considered as square footage against the allowable signage area.
The sign band shall be located within the first two stories of the building.
c. Pedestrian blade signs may be attached perpendicular to the facade projecting out no more than four
feet from the building facade, not exceeding three feet in vertical dimension, and with a minimum
vertical clearance of eight feet. Pedestrian blades sign shall be set back a minimum of two feet from the
end of the building or storefront. Pedestrian blade signs shall only be located within the first story of the
building. Only one double-sided pedestrian blade sign shall be allowed per business.
d. Vertical building signs may be attached perpendicular to the building facade, projecting out no more
than three feet from the building facade. Vertical signs shall not exceed two feet in width and five feet in
vertical dimension. Signs shall be located above the first story and shall be set back a minimum of two
feet from the end of the building. Only one vertical sign shall be allowed per applicable storefront. In the
event that a vertical sign is utilized, no sign band shall be permitted.

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 3

e. For vacant storefronts, signage advertising a new business or development shall be limited to 50
percent of the glazing area; up to 100 percent of the glazing area may be comprised of urban lifestyle
imagery which does not advertise any specific good, service, or business.
f. Permanent and temporary window signage shall be permitted for up to 25 percent of the glazed area of
the storefront provided such signage shall not unreasonably obstruct views from the street into
storefront spaces.
3. Coleman Park professional office residential districts. Those commercial and mixed-uses approved by right or
subject to approval as a class B special use shall comply with following signage requirements:
a. An external sign band may be applied on the facade of each building provided that it shall not exceed
36 inches in height by 40 percent of the storefront width. The sign band shall be located within the first
two stories of the building. Signage may be permitted on awnings or canopies, but shall be calculated
as square footage against the allowable signage area. Such signs shall not be internally illuminated.
External illumination is permitted.
b. Pedestrian blade signs may be attached perpendicular to the facade projecting out no more than four
feet from the building facade and not exceeding three feet in vertical dimension. Pedestrian blade signs
shall be set back a minimum of two feet from the end of the building or storefront.
c. One building identity sign shall be allowed on buildings three or more stories in height. Such signs shall
not be internally illuminated and shall not exceed a total sign face of 40 square feet. External
illumination is permitted.
4. Coleman Park community service districts: Notwithstanding the provisions of ARTICLE XIII of this chapter,
signage shall conform to the following:
a. One single-faced low freestanding sign shall be permitted with a maximum sum total area of 20 square
feet.
b. Wall, facade, canopy, marquee, and related building-mounted signs: One sign, located on any building
side shall be permitted, not to exceed the lesser of one percent of gross wall area or 16 square feet.
5. Schools and places of worship within residential enclaves. The following signage shall be permitted:
a. One low freestanding sign, located on the lot of the principal structure which shall not exceed four feet
in height and 16 square feet in sign face area. The sign shall be located a minimum of ten feet from any
lot line, and shall not be internally illuminated.
b. Bulletin boards shall be permitted provided they comply with the regulations established in section 94407.
j. Alleys and rights-of-way: Standards for alleys and rights-of-way provide guidelines for new streets and alleys to
enhance pedestrian and vehicular circulation, and to provide safe service access for buildings.
1. Vacation of all rights-of-way shall be discouraged and must serve the public welfare; however, where an alley
abandonment is granted which serves a development, the following requirements shall also apply:
a. Where a right-of-way is vacated to allow a development, such developments shall have all services,
including but not limited to loading, trash removal and general services, internalized and screened from
public view.
b. Where a right-of way is vacated to allow a development, such developments shall provide an open
space equal to the size of the vacated right-of-way at a ratio of 1:1 and shall meet the criteria of the
open space standards established in section 94-222(e).
c. Where portions of a right-of-way are vacated to allow a development, the right-of-way shall be
reconfigured to maintain two separate access points for entry and exit from the development onto the
street. The reconfigured right-of-way shall have the minimum dimensions recommended by the city's
engineering services department.
2. Vacation and relocation of rights-of-way shall be discouraged and must serve the public welfare.
3. Requests to abandon a right-of-way shall comply with chapter 78; article VII - Vacating and Closing Street
and Alleys.
4. Where designated by the regulating map, new streets are encouraged to improve connectivity and integrate
large tracts of land into the neighborhood.
k. Demolition of existing buildings. The demolition of existing buildings shall comply with the following requirements:
1. Designated historic structures or structure located within a historic district proposed for demolition shall
comply with section 94-49.

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 4

2. Before issuance of a demolition permit, the property owner shall obtain and keep in force a policy or policies
of general liability and property damage insurance in an amount to be determined by the city for combined
single limit, per occurrence, bodily injury, and property damage. A certificate of insurance shall be submitted
to the city prior to issuance of the demolition permit and shall name the city as an additional insured party.
3. Unsafe structures as defined by the Standard Unsafe Building Abatement Code adopted by the city may
receive an emergency demolition order from the city building official due to unsafe structure conditions.
4. The ZBA may also authorize the demolition of a structure on sites with contamination identified by a site
environmental study.
5. The ZBA may authorize the demolition of a structure to allow the creation of an urban open space. The urban
open space shall be conveyed to the city or other public entity, and shall be rezoned as an urban open space.
l. Demolition standards. Unless otherwise provided in these regulations, the ZBA may approve the request for a
demolition upon the finding that the petition satisfies each of the following standards:
1. There exists a significant economic hardship to rehabilitate and reuse the structure based upon the structural
condition of the building and practicality of rehabilitation and reuse.
2. The demolition will not cause significant harm to the public's interest due to the lack of architectural or historic
significance of the building.
3. The structure does not maintain the continuity, scale and massing of adjacent structures and the structure
lacks prominence within the block or its relationship to adjacent structures.
4. The structure's reuse is inconsistent with the goals and intent of the specific district in which it is located.
5. The removal of the structure will enhance the public safety, health, and welfare of resident and visitors.
6. Due to the structure's condition and level of deterioration, it would be impractical to board and secure the
structure.
If the demolition request does not satisfy each of the demolition standards, the request shall be denied.
m. Demolition materials. Any proposed demolitions of a building larger than 50,000 square feet shall divert 50 percent
of construction, demolition, and land clearing debris from landfill disposal by developing a waste management plan
which quantifies material diversion goals. Calculations can be done by weight or volume, but must be consistent
throughout as described in the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Standards for Materials
and Resources, Credit 2. Hazardous waste and excavation soil may not be included in the calculations. Structures
which are to be demolished due to environmental contamination are not required to fulfill this standard.
n. Before issuance of a demolition permit, the property owner shall pay a sustainability deposit to the city in an amount
established by resolution of the city commission, in addition to any other deposits or bonds required by the city. The
architect or contractor shall certify the implementation of this requirement 60 days after the demolition of the
structure through the submittal of a report to the planning department. If diversion requirement is met, deposit is
returned to applicant, if diversion requirement is not met, deposit will be forfeited to the city.
(Ord. No. 4402-12, § 2, 9-18-2012; Ord. No. 5002-22, § 4, 07-11-2022)

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 5

