Sec. 94-231. - Coleman Park neighborhood commercial (CP-NC) development
characteristics and sub-district requirements.
a. Intent. The intent of this district is to provide opportunities to develop commercial projects that serve the surrounding
residential uses. Infill projects are encouraged that promote opportunities for new and incubator businesses.
However, due to the shallow depth of the available parcels, infill construction will be limited in size, scale and mass.
b. Building height. Building height shall not exceed 30 feet, including all habitable and mechanical space.
c. Building placement.
1. Minimum lot area: 5,000 square feet.
2. Maximum lot area: 10,000 square feet.
3. Building separation: zero feet or not less than ten feet.
4. Minimum lot width: 50 feet.
5. Maximum density and FAR: 32 du/acre and 1.5 FAR
6. Minimum setbacks:
a. Front: 10 feet.
b. Corner: 5 feet.
c. Side: 5 feet, or 15 feet when abutting a residence
d. Rear: 15 feet
d. Maximum lot coverage by buildings: 60 percent.
e. Maximum lot coverage by impermeable surface: 85 percent.
f. Minimum required open space and landscape areas.
a. Minimum required open space area: 40 percent
b. Minimum required landscape area: 15 percent
g. Parking. All parking shall be placed behind the building whenever possible. Commercial uses shall provide at least
one standard parking space per 1,000 square feet. On-street parking adjacent to the property may be counted
toward the required parking.
h. Architectural standards. Structures within this district shall adhere to the design standards set forth in section 94222(f).
i. Building uses. Uses permitted within this district are provided in the schedule of permitted uses under neighborhood
commercial (NC) zoning district in table 1-IX of ARTICLE IX of this chapter, unless prohibited by section 94-229(j).
Drive-thru facilities are only permitted on parcels that are a minimum of one acre in size. No drive aisles and/or
parking stalls are permitted between Tamarind Avenue and the perimeter landscape buffer.
j. Prohibited uses. The following uses shall be prohibited within the CP-NC district: bait and tackle shops, bars,
lounges and related entertainment, check cashing stores as a principal use, convenience stores, game arcades,
hotels and motels, liquor and party stores, motor vehicle fuel sales and service, motor vehicle repair, motor vehicle
sales and rental, motor vehicle sales and service agencies, indoor recreation facilities, outdoor recreation facilities,
and taxidermists.
(Ord. No. 4402-12, ยง 2, 9-18-2012)

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 1

