Sec. 94-46. - Historic preservation.
a. Statement of purpose.
1. The city recognizes its collection of historic properties and historic districts, which create a setting, sense of
time and place, and ambience highly attractive to tourists, business development and residents.
2. The city declares that Ordinance No. 3554-02 (the historic preservation ordinance, codified as the historic
preservation provisions in sections 94-45 through 94-53, subsection 94-31(e) and section 94-611) specifically
implements the goals, objectives, and policies of the historic preservation element of the comprehensive plan
and, further, embodies the city's commitment to preserving, protecting, restoring and fully utilizing its
historical, cultural and architectural resources ("resources").
3. The historic preservation ordinance is designed to identify, protect, restore and encourage reuse of
resources, all of which are essential to the city's health, safety, morals, and its economical, educational,
cultural, and general welfare. These valid public purposes shall be fulfilled by the ordinance, to achieve the
following goals:
a. Preserve, protect, enhance and perpetuate resources which represent distinctive and significant
elements of the city's historical, cultural, social, economical, political, archaeological, and architectural
identity; and/or serve as visible reminders of the city's culture and heritage;
b. Ensure the harmonious, orderly, and efficient growth, prosperity and development of the city through
retention and reuse of its historic and cultural resources;
c. Strengthen civic pride and cultural stability through neighborhood conservation;
d. Contribute to the stabilization of the economy of the city through the continued use, preservation,
conservation and revitalization of its resources;
e. Protect and enhance the city's historic, cultural and architectural attractions to tourists and visitors and
the support and stimulus to business and industry thereby provided;
f. Promote the use of resources for the education, pleasure, and welfare of the people of the city;
g. Provide a review process for the continued preservation and appropriate, compatible and sensitive
development of new construction and additions within the city's historic districts and neighborhoods;
h. Protect and enhance the scale, character and stability of existing neighborhoods, and protect against
destruction of or encroachment upon areas which contribute to the character of the city;
i. Facilitate the creation of a convenient, harmonious and attractive community, and protect the
architectural beauty and special architectural features of the city;
j. Avoid demolition, or other adverse effect on historic properties (properties) and districts, which would
cause an irreparable loss to the city;
k. Assist neighborhoods to achieve a positive neighborhood identity and sense of place.
4. In addition, the historic preservation ordinance is designed to implement, be consistent with, and assist in the
achievement of the goals, objectives and policies, as specifically required by the city's comprehensive plan,
with respect to historic, conservation, and neighborhood resources.
b. Historic preservation division. The historic preservation division of the planning department (the division) shall
administer the historic preservation provisions of this chapter. The division shall employ planners with expertise in
archeology, history, architectural history, historic preservation, preservation planning, or a closely related field (the
preservation planners). The head of the division shall be the historic preservation planner.
c. Powers and duties of the historic preservation planners. The preservation planners shall have the following powers
and duties:
1. To advise the board on applications that come before the board for designations, certificates of
appropriateness, and certificates of economic hardship, and to assist in the preparation of complete
applications for each;
2. To schedule meetings of the board, prepare agendas and ensure that proper notice is given;

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 1

3. To coordinate the city's preservation activities with local, state, federal, and national agencies and
preservation organizations;
4. To recommend to the board properties or districts for historic designation;
5. To undertake and continue an ongoing comprehensive survey and inventory to identify properties and
districts that have historic, community, or architectural value within the city;
6. To keep a record of all designated properties and districts in the West Palm Beach Register of Historic
Places;
7. To accept and administer grants or gifts to the city, including easements, that may be appropriate for carrying
out the purpose of the historic preservation provisions of this chapter;
8. To review all permit requests for demolition within the city;
9. To review rezoning applications, applications for special use permits or applications for zoning variances that
affect designated properties or districts;
10. To issue notices of violation or to request the building official or other authorized employee to issue notices of
violation for properties not in compliance with the historic preservation provisions of this chapter;
11. To recommend to the city commission the appropriate fees for administration of the historic preservation
provisions of this chapter;
12. To periodically review the historic preservation provisions of this chapter and the other provisions of this
chapter and to recommend changes to the planning director and city commission; and
13. To assist the board in carrying out any of its powers and duties.
(Ord. No. 3554-02, art. I, § 2, art. III, §§ 1, 2, 7-22-2002)

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 2

