Sec. 94-55. - Mixed-use districts (MUD) development approval process.
The process and procedure to request approvals for any new construction, reconstruction, alteration, addition or
improvement to an existing structure or appurtenance within the MUD area shall be as follows:
a. Formal site plan review.
1. Application and review process. An application for a formal site plan review shall be submitted to the
development services department, planning division, on city approved forms. After an application is deemed
complete by city staff, the application will be placed on the agenda for the next available plans and plat review
committee (PPRC) meeting. At the meeting, the PPRC will review the project for compliance with governing
ordinances and regulations.
The applicant shall address any comments of the PPRC and submit a revised application within 60 days of
the meeting. Failure to make the required submittals within the 60-day deadline will deem the application as
withdrawn. At least 15 days prior to the expiration of the 60-day revision period, the applicant may request a
30-day extension. No further extension request is permitted. Comments relating to revised applications shall
be addressed within 30 days of the date of such comments. As part of the PPRC review, staff shall identify
any need for additional approvals such as planning board special review, variances, and class B special use
permits as required by the zoning and land development regulations. Such additional approvals shall be
sought within the formal site plan review period and shall be required prior to any site plan approval. A formal
site plan application shall be considered withdrawn after 90 days of inactivity.
2. Exceptions. The following types of applications do not require formal site plan review, and may proceed
directly to building permit application if other approvals such as variances, waivers or class B special use
permits are not required:
a. Any modification of an existing structure that does not increase the total square footage of the structure
or change the building footprint.
b. One- and two-residential unit structures in residential districts.
c. Outbuildings and accessory structures of fewer than 1,000 gross square feet.
d. Additions of fewer than 1,000 gross square feet to existing residential and nonresidential structures.
e. Addition of awnings, canopies, or decorative architectural elements.
f. Redesign of existing surface parking facilities, drives, and driveways.
g. Swimming pools, including redesign and relocation.
h. Minor structural additions or alterations, such as porches, terraces, and fencing.
i. Addition of parking spaces to existing surface parking facilities not exceeding 25 percent of the existing
number of spaces or 20 spaces, whichever is less.
3. Formal site plan approval. After completion of the PPRC formal site plan review process, and after obtaining
any additional approvals required, a formal site plan approval letter will be issued stating the terms and
conditions of the approval. Proposed developments with formal site plan approvals shall commence
construction within 24 months following the date of formal site plan approval. If commencement of
construction does not occur during such 24-month period, the formal site plan approval shall automatically
expire without further action by the city.
Projects approved as phased development shall commence construction of the first phase within 24 months
following the date of formal site plan approval. Following phases shall commence construction according to
the timeframes established on the site plan approval. If construction of subsequent phases does not comply
with the established timeframes, the formal site plan approval shall automatically expire without further action
by the city.
4. Formal site plan approval extensions. At least 30 days prior to the expiration of the 24-month period to
commence construction, a developer may apply for a six-month formal site plan approval extension. No
further extension may be requested.
b. Level III Special review by the Planning Board.

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 1

1. The following proposed developments are subject to special review and approval by the Planning Board as
part of the formal site plan review process:
a. Any proposed development within the boundaries of the Northwood Mixed-use district, the Currie
Mixed-use district and the Broadway-mixed-use district.
b. Any modification to a site designated as public urban open space or urban greenway within the districts.
c. Any proposed development within the districts requesting the abandonment by the city of any portion of
an alley or right-of-way.
d. Any proposed development within the districts with a residential development of 99 or more dwelling
units, including renovations of existing structures when a change to a more intensive use is anticipated.
e. Commercial or office developments of 50,000 or more gross square feet of enclosed building area,
including renovations of existing structures when a change to a more intensive use is anticipated.
2. Standards for special review. Proposed developments which are subject to special review shall be evaluated
based on the following qualitative principles as well as the quantitative requirements of the urban regulations:
a. Relationship of building to site and surroundings. The proposed development should be designed in
consideration of a three dimensional context that includes surrounding private properties and public
realm. The effects of the proposed building scale and form on adjacent streets, neighboring properties,
and the overall development of the district in which it is located, shall be assessed to ensure any
possible negative impacts are minimized.
The form and scale of each building shall meet the requirements for each subdistrict, as defined in the
corresponding building requirements table. Proposed developments shall submit floor plans, building
elevations, building cross-sections and street-level three-dimensional renderings for the proposed
development and all buildings on adjacent sites, public spaces and streets to illustrate how the new
building relates to the surrounding area.
b. Circulation and traffic flow. The proposed development should promote pedestrian circulation by
providing attractive, safe and comfortable paths of travel. Vehicular circulation should be efficient and
limit impacts to pedestrian movement around and through the site. Vehicular circulation should not
detract from the active uses occurring on-site or on adjacent sites.
c. Building design. While architectural style should not be restricted, the proposed development should be
evaluated based upon the quality and execution of the design, as well as its relationship to surrounding
buildings. The architectural elements chosen should be consistent across the entire development.
Consistency will be determined based upon mass, bulk, proportion, fenestration, and rhythm of building
elements when reviewed together and as separate elements.
d. Public realm. The proposed development should enhance the quality of the public realm. Enhancement
may be determined based upon the provision of open space, public amenities, landscaping, or a
building design with features which contribute to the viability and attractiveness of the public realm. The
public realm space should be integrated with the building site plan in a way that not only fully
incorporates surrounding pedestrian circulation at the ground level, but also allows visual interaction
with the floors above the ground level.
3. Community meetings. As part of the special review process, and prior to a planning board public hearing, the
planning and zoning administrator may require an applicant to conduct a community meeting to advise the
surrounding neighborhood of the proposed development. If required, the application shall not be scheduled
for a planning board hearing until the community meeting is conducted.
c. Class B special use permits. For properties located within a mixed-use district the following requirements and
procedures govern the process to obtain a class B special use permit:
1. If a class B special use permit is required by the zoning and land development regulations, an application for
approval of a class B special use permit shall be submitted to the department on city approved forms.
2. After an application is deemed complete, the application shall be placed on the next available PPRC meeting
for review. After the comments from PPRC have been addressed, the application shall be placed on the next
available planning board agenda.
3. Class B special use permit applications shall be evaluated by the planning board pursuant to the special use
standards contained in subsection 94-273 (e)(3), and (e)(4) of this chapter. In those cases where the special
use is located within an edge subdistrict, the application shall also be evaluated pursuant to special use
standards contained in subsection 94-36(e)(5) of this chapter.

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 2

4. Class B special uses may be approved subject to additional conditions or limitations upon the establishment,
location, construction, maintenance, or operation of the use, as may be necessary to protect the public
interest and welfare.
5. The class B special use permit runs with the property until the permit expires or it is revoked.
6. A class B special use permit may be revoked upon a determination by the planning board that any of the
following have occurred:
a. Failure to comply with all conditions or requirements of the class B special use permit approval.
b. Failure, without good cause, to correct violations of conditions or requirements of the class B special
use permit within the time period contained in the notice of violation.
7. All plans, specifications, representations, drawings and statements submitted with the application for a class
B special use permit or made part of the record of the planning board with respect to the application, shall
become a part of the terms and conditions of any approval, except as revised by the planning board.
8. Time limitations. Class B special use permits shall expire if not exercised within 18 months of the date
authorized. At least 30 days prior to expiration, an applicant may request in writing an additional six-month
extension from the planning board. If granted, no further extension may be requested.
d. Variances. For properties located within a mixed-use district applications for a variance from the urban regulations
are subject to the following requirements and procedures:
1. If a variance is required from the urban regulations, an application for approval of a variance by the planning
board shall be submitted to the department on city approved forms.
2. After the application is deemed complete, the application shall be placed on the next available planning board
agenda.
3. Variances shall be evaluated by the planning board pursuant to the variance standards contained in
subsection 94-38(d)(6).
4. Unauthorized variances. The planning board is not authorized to grant variances for any of the following:
a. Any action which would be inconsistent with the comprehensive plan.
b. An increase in building height above the maximum height allowed by the corresponding building
requirement table.
c. A decrease of more than five percent in required ground floor setbacks fronting a street designation for
lots within all subdistricts.
d. An increase in maximum building footprint above the maximum footprint allowed by the zoning and land
development regulations.
e. An establishment or expansion of a use in a district in which such use is not permitted by this chapter.
f. A decrease in open space requirements below the minimum size required.
5. Variances may be approved subject to conditions deemed necessary by the planning board to ensure
compliance with this chapter.
6. Time limitations. Variances shall expire if not exercised within 18 months of the date authorized. At least 30
days prior to expiration, an applicant may request in writing an additional six-month extension from the
planning board. If granted, no further extensions may be requested. If the proposed development requesting
the variance is required to obtain a formal site plan approval, variances for such developments shall be valid
for the same period as the site plan approval. If a site plan approval has not been obtained within 18 months
of the variance approval, the variance shall become void.
e. Waivers. Applications for a waiver from the mixed-use district regulations shall conform to all such additional
standards contained in subsection 94-273 (a)(2)(d) unless the review authority shall reduce the standards upon a
finding, based upon a preponderance of the evidence of record that the proposed special use nevertheless:
1. Will be consistent with the comprehensive plan of the city adopted by the city commission;
2. Will be in harmony with the general character of the neighborhood considering population density, design,
scale and bulk of any proposed new structures, intensity and character of activity, traffic and parking
conditions, and number of similar uses;
3. Will not be detrimental to the use, peaceful enjoyment, economic value, or development of surrounding
properties or the general neighborhood; and will cause no objectionable noise, vibrations, fumes, odors, dust,
glare or physical activity;

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 3

4. Will have no detrimental effect on vehicular or pedestrian within a district due to detrimental affects on
permitted uses;
5. Will not adversely affect the health, safety, security, morals, or general welfare of residents, visitors, or
workers in the area;
6. Will not, in conjunction with existing development in the area and development permitted under existing
zoning, overburden existing public services and facilities, including schools, police and fire protection, water,
sanitary sewer, public roads, storm drainage, and other public improvements;
7. Otherwise meets the definition standards set forth elsewhere in this chapter for such particular use; and
8. Will provide alternative measures consistent with the intent of the additional standards to provide protection to
adjacent properties and preserve neighborhood character.
f. Appeal process.
1. Appeals of decisions of the planning and zoning administrator in interpreting, administering or enforcing the
urban regulations regarding properties located within a mixed-use district shall be directed to the planning
board, whose decision shall be final. Written notice of the appeal, including justification for the action, shall be
filed with the department on city approved forms within 60 days after the disputed interpretation,
administration, or enforcement.
2. Decisions of the planning board regarding variances, special use permits, and special review approvals may
be appealed to the circuit court for the Fifteenth Judicial Circuit within 30 days from the date of the decision
by the planning board.
3. An appeal shall not operate as a stay of the decision unless a stay of the decision is ordered by the court
having jurisdiction of the appeal.
(Ord. No. 5008-22, ยง 6, 07-25-2022)

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 4

