Sec. 94-174. - Industrial (I) district.
a. The industrial district is designated primarily for areas of intensive manufacturing and industrial areas where related
uses are clustered around each other or other areas capable of supporting such uses. The industrial district is
established to provide areas for uses that are not compatible with primary commercial, institutional, and residential
uses. Industrial uses are uses that may be offensive by reason of size, odor, fumes, noise, cinders, vibrations, heat,
glare or electrical interference. Industrial uses may include brewery and distilleries, fuel storage and distribution,
lumber related activities, auto dismantling or recycling yard and waste transfer facility. The following areas are
zoned industrial:
Northwood Area —This district is located south of 27th Street and north of 25th Street between Windsor Avenue
and the FEC railroad tracks within the Northwood/Pleasant City Community Redevelopment Agency boundaries.
This area is comprised of historic Quonset Huts, scrap metal yards, contractor offices, lumber yard, tile business
and various repair businesses.
Electronics Way —This district is located on Electronic Way, between 36th Street and 25th Street within the
Northwood/Pleasant City Community Redevelopment Agency boundaries. This area is comprised of large
warehouses that are mainly occupied by records storage and transportation related business.
Military Trail and 45th Street Areas —This district is mainly located on the south side of 45th Street, between
Military Trail and Village Boulevard. There are some areas located north of 45th Street on the east and west side of
Military Trail. This area is comprised of small flex warehouse/retail buildings that are mainly occupied by tile and
equipment rental businesses.
Okeechobee Road —This district is located west of Parker Avenue, just south of Okeechobee Boulevard. This
area is mostly comprised of small warehouse buildings, complexes for the City of WPB and the Town of Palm
Beach, storage business, automotive repair businesses and retail uses.
Belvedere Road —This district is located just south of Belvedere Road between I-95 and Australian Avenue. This
area is comprised of large warehouse buildings with outdoor storage that are mainly occupied by repair businesses,
distributors, contractor offices, storage yards, government facilities and a small amount of retail.
Georgia Avenue —This district is primarily located between Monroe Road to the Southern City limits on the east
side of Georgia Avenue. This area is comprised of warehouse buildings, outdoor storage, contractor offices, repair
businesses, wholesale businesses, automobile sales and repair business and other industrial uses.
Indian Road —This district is located north of Okeechobee Boulevard, between Military Trail and Palm Beach
Lakes Boulevard. This area is comprised of warehouse buildings, roofing contractors, automobile repair business
and other industrial uses.
Up the Grove Lane —This district is located on the east side of Military Trail, north of 45th Street. This area is
comprised of Florida Power and Light facilities.
b. Development standards in the industrial (I) district shall be as follows:
1. Minimum lot dimensions:
a. Lot area: 5,000 square feet.
b. Lot width: 50 feet.
2. Minimum setbacks:
a. Minimum setback from property line adjoining public right-of-way: zero feet.
b. Minimum setback from property line not adjoining public right-of-way: zero feet; however, a minimum
setback of at least 15 feet (buffer) will be provided when abutting residential districts.
3. Maximum lot coverage by building: 60 percent.
4. Maximum lot coverage by impervious surface: 85 percent.
5. Maximum building height: 50 feet.
6. Minimum required open space and landscape areas:

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 1

a. Minimum required open space area: 40 percent.
b. Minimum required landscape area: 15 percent.
7. Maximum floor area ratio:
a. 0.75
b. Planned development: 0.75
(Code 1979, § 33-73; Ord. No. 4147-08, § 2, 7-28-2008; Ord. No. 4449-13, § 15, 3-19-2013; Ord. No. 4660-16, § 4, 12-52016)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 4660-16, § 4, adopted Dec. 5, 2016, renumbered § 94-173 as § 94-174.

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 2

