Sec. 94-337. - Satellite earth stations (SES).
a. Satellite earth stations (SES) that are less than one meter (39.39 inches) in diameter are permitted in historic
districts or historic eligible districts, but in such districts installation is subject to either painting requirements
consistent with the historic character, or relocation of the SES on a historic building in a manner that does not affect
the ability of the SES to receive its signals from orbiting or geo-stationary satellites, in order to preserve historic
district, site, building, structure or object included in, or eligible for inclusion on, the National Register of Historic
Places, as set forth in the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended, 16 U.S.C. 470.
b. Satellite earth stations which are larger than one meter (39.37 inches) in diameter, intended to receive signals from
orbiting or geo-stationary satellites and other sources, or to link wireless service sites together by wireless
transmission of voice or data shall comply with the following provisions.
i. Single and two-family residential standards:
1. Rooftop SESs are prohibited.
2. An SES shall be considered an accessory structure; however, an SES shall be permitted within five feet
of a side and/or rear property line.
3. No SES shall be permitted within the front yard or setback. For lots having more than one street
frontage. an SES shall be located in a side yard which does not abut a public or private right-of-way.
4. No SES shall exceed 15 feet in height. No dish shall exceed ten feet in diameter.
5. Landscape including shrubs a minimum of 24 inches on all sides or property, an opaque screen (i.e.,
wood fence, translucent mesh, etc.) or both shall be incorporated on any SES located in a rear yard.
6. There shall be no more than one antenna on any single-family or duplex lot.
ii. Nonresidential and multifamily standards:
1. All SESs shall be ground-mounted and located in the rear yard so as not to be visible from any public
right-of-way.
2. An SES may not be located in the rear yard if the rear lot lines abuts a public right of-way, lands zoned
residential.
3. Landscaping including shrubs a minimum of 36 inches on all sides, an opaque screen (i.e., wood fence,
translucent mesh, etc.) or both shall be incorporated on any dish located in a rear yard.
4. No SES shall exceed 20 feet in height measured from grade. No dish shall exceed fifteen 15 feet in
diameter.
5. Nonresidential SESs may be considered for roof installation provided that application is made for a level
III permit. Roof-mounted SES must be screened by parapets that appear to be an integral part of the
building so that not more than 25 percent of the antenna height is visible from grade level of adjacent
property and adjacent public or private rights-of-way.
6. All SESs shall not be light reflective. Dish antennas shall not have any sign copy on them nor shall they
be illuminated.
7. Each person wishing to place SESs in nonresidential and multifamily zoned property shall make
application for a Class B special use permit.
8. There shall be no more than one antenna on any parcel. However, where business is licensed by the
city as a dealer of electronic equipment, such business may have two antennas for their parcel.
(Ord. No. 4549-15, ยง 2(94-347), 6-8-2015)

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 1

