Sec. 94-333. - Review criteria.
a. Wireless communication permit level I and level II. Applications for wireless communication permits for level I and
level II shall be evaluated based on the specific permit level requirements in this article and the following additional
criteria:
1. The placement of antennas on buildings and other structures is encouraged and preferred over the
installation of towers or monopoles. Where feasible, co-location of facilities and minimum number of antennas
shall be evaluated to determine the proposed facility has been designed carefully.
2. If a facility is to be installed in or on a historic building or structure, a certificate of appropriateness is required
pursuant to section 94-49. Additional measures shall be required so as to not alter the historic significance of
the building or structure
3. Antennas should be screened or hidden from the public view by the following methods: designed as
architectural elements, screened with enclosures or landscaping. Screening materials shall consist of
materials and colors consistent with the surrounding backdrop, structure, and local character and/or textured
to match the existing structure.
4. Where feasible, antennas can be placed directly above, below or incorporated with vertical design elements
of a building to help in camouflaging. Antennas mounted on architecturally significant structures or
architecturally significant details of the building should be covered with appropriate casings, which are
manufactured to match existing architectural features found on the building.
5. All exposed cables, conduits and/or surface mounted wires shall be concealed or painted out to match the
building.
6. Equipment shelters or cabinets shall be consistent with the general character of the neighborhood and
historic character, if applicable.
7. Equipment shelters or cabinets shall be screened from the public view by using landscaping, or materials and
colors consistent with the surrounding backdrop, or wrapping cabinets with site appropriate graphics.
8. Screening enclosures shall be allowed when the design is architecturally compatible with the building.
9. Lighting. Lighting of these facilities is not allowed.
b. Wireless communication permit level III and level IV. Applications for wireless communication permits for level III
and level IV shall be evaluated based on: (i) the specific permit level requirements in this article; (ii) the standards
for the applicable special use permit; and (iii) the following criteria:
1. Where feasible, co-location of facilities and minimum number of antennas shall be evaluated to determine
whether and to the extent that the proposed facility has been designed carefully.
2. If the approving authority determines that the proposed additional service of non-broadcast facilities,
coverage, or capacity to be achieved by the location of the proposed new wireless communications facility
can be achieved by use of one or more alternative existing wireless communications facilities, it may
disapprove the proposed antenna support facility application.
3. All exposed cables, conduits and/or surface mounted wires shall be concealed or painted out to match the
building.
4. Equipment shelters or cabinets shall be consistent with the general character of the neighborhood and
historic character if applicable.
5. Equipment shelters or cabinets shall be screened from the public view by using landscaping, or materials and
colors consistent with the surrounding backdrop, structure and local character and/or wrapping cabinets with
site appropriate graphics.
6. Screening enclosures shall be allowed when the design is architecturally compatible with the building.
7. The approving bodies in determining whether a wireless communications facility is in harmony with the area
or the effects and general compatibility of a wireless communications facility with adjacent properties may
consider the aesthetic effects of the tower as well as mitigating factors concerning aesthetics.
8. The approving bodies may disapprove an application on the grounds that the wireless communications
facility's aesthetic effects are unacceptable, or may condition approval on changes in tower height, design,

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 1

style, buffers, or other features of the wireless communications facility or its surrounding area. Such changes
in non-broadcast installations need not result in performance identical to that of the original application.
9. Factors relevant to aesthetic effects are: the protection of the view in sensitive or particularly scenic areas
and areas specially designated in adopted plans such as unique natural features, scenic roadways and
historic sites; the concentration of towers in the proposed area; and whether the height, design, placement or
other characteristics of the proposed tower could be modified to have a less intrusive visual impact.
(Ord. No. 4549-15, ยง 2(94-343), 6-8-2015)

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 2

