Sec. 94-315. - Outdoor storage for nonresidential and multifamily uses; storage and
disposal facilities.
a. Outdoor incinerators, garbage or trash receptacles, fuel oil or propane tanks, and storage racks shall not be
permitted unless appropriate screening is provided. Screening shall be constructed of brick, decorative concrete,
other decorative masonry, or comparably durable wood and steel. Walls shall be landscaped with shrubs and
hedges planted at two-foot intervals. A four-sided enclosure with an obscuring gate may be required as a condition
for site plan approval. Plans for the layout of trash receptacles shall be in accordance with the minimum
requirements set forth in Figure XIV-3. The provisions of this section shall not apply to litter containers provided for
the convenience of pedestrians. All areas for the storage and disposal of trash and garbage shall be paved with
concrete surface as required by city engineering department.

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 1

FIGURE XIV-3

b. Outdoor storage and disposal of goods, merchandise and materials.
1. Screening. Outdoor storage of goods, merchandise and materials shall not be permitted unless enclosed on
all sides by a wall of adequate height constructed of brick, decorative concrete, other decorative masonry, or
comparably durable wood or steel. Wall openings shall have obscuring gates. All areas for the storage and
disposal of goods, merchandise, and materials shall be covered with either asphalt or concrete paving, or
crushed rock of such specification and design as required by the city engineering department.
2. Exemptions .
a. Temporary outdoor storage of bulk garden and farming supplies, such as wood chips, peat moss, flower
flats, and similar items shall not be subject to the provisions of this section.

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 2

b. Automobiles and other motor vehicles may be stored subject to the requirements of section 94-273,
rather than this section.
(Ord. No. 4689-16, ยง 14, 4-11-2017)

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 3

