Sec. 94-322. - Siting communication facilities.
a. Siting alternatives order. The preferred siting of a wireless communication facility within the city will be in
accordance with the following siting alternatives order:
1. a. Concealed attached antenna on public right-of-way/property.
b. Collocated or combined on existing tower on public right-of-way property.
2. a. Concealed attached antenna on private property.
b. Collocated or combined on existing tower on private property.
3. Non-concealed attached antenna.
a. On public right-of-way/property.
b. On private property.
4. Mitigation of existing tower.
a. On public right-of-way/property.
b. On private property.
5. Concealed freestanding tower.
a. On public right-of-way/property.
b. On private property.
6. Non-concealed freestanding tower.
a. On public right-of-way/property.
b. On private property.
For attached, collocated, or combined antenna: The order of ranking preference, highest to lowest, is: (1)a., (2)a., (1)b.,
(2)b., (3)a., (3)b. Where a lower ranked alternative is proposed, the applicant must file relevant justification, including, but
not limited to, an affidavit by a licensed engineer with documented expertise in radio frequency propagation,
demonstrating that despite diligent efforts to adhere to the established hierarchy within the geographic search area, higher
ranked options are not technically feasible, practical or justified given the location of the proposed wireless
communications facility.
For mitigated or freestanding tower: The order of ranking preference from highest to lowest is: (4)a., (4)b., (5)a., (5)b.,
(6)a., (6)b. Where a lower ranked alternative is proposed, the applicant must demonstrate higher ranked options are not
technically feasible, practical, or justified given the location of the proposed wireless communications facility, and the
existing land uses of the subject and surrounding properties within 300 feet of the proposed tower.
Facilities to be located in the public right-of-way. Facilities in the public right-of-way shall be governed by chapter 78,
article XI, division 2 of this Code.
(Ord. No. 4549-15, ยง 2(94-332), 6-8-2015)

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 1

