Sec. 94-331. - Application review timeframes.
a. Section 6409 collocation. A collocation application entitled to expedited streamlined processing pursuant to Section
6409 of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 and section 94-325(b)(7) of this Code shall be
approved or denied in writing, and shall be postmarked to the applicant by the 60th calendar day after the initial
submission, excluding any tolling period. The timeline for a decision shall be tolled by a notice of incompleteness
until resubmittal, and until the second resubmission.
b. Other collocations. Other collocation applications entitled to expedited streamlined process review pursuant to F.S.
ยง 365.172(12) and section 94-325(b)(6) of this Code shall be reviewed by the city's plans and plats review
committee (PPRC) within 45 business days of submission, (or within some other mutually agreed upon timeframe)
after the date the application is deemed complete. The timeline for a decision shall be tolled by a notice of
incompleteness until resubmittal, and until the second resubmission.
c. All other wireless communication facilities. The city shall review and grant or deny each complete application within
90 business days from the date the application is determined to be complete. The timeline for a decision shall be
tolled by a notice of incompleteness until resubmittal, and until the second resubmission.
1. For level IV permit applications only, the 90 business-day timeframe may be extended if the hearing on the
class A special use permit before the city commission, following the review process and timeframe applicable
to all class A special use approvals for all uses, cannot reasonably occur within the 90 business days. Under
such circumstances, the city commission must either grant or deny the application at its next regularly
scheduled meeting after the 90 business days have expired or the application shall be deemed automatically
approved.
d. If the city does not grant or deny a properly completed application for a wireless communications facility within the
timeframes set forth in this section, the application shall be deemed automatically approved and the applicant may
proceed with the next level of review or, if no additional levels of review, with submittal for a building permit.
e. The timeframes in this section may be waived if a waiver is voluntarily agreed to by the applicant and the city. A
one-time waiver may be required by the city, without the applicant's consent, in the case of a declared local, state,
or federal emergency which directly affects the permitting activities of the city, for the length of that emergency.
(Ord. No. 4549-15, ยง 2(94-341), 6-8-2015)

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 1

