Sec. 94-305. - Setbacks.
a. Measurement of setbacks.
1. Measurement. Setbacks shall be measured by the shortest dimension, running from the property line to the
building line.
2. Effect of future rights-of-way. When future right-of-way lines are established by the city commission, all
setbacks shall be measured from the established right-of-way.
b. Setback encroachments.
1. Joint use prohibited. The setback or open space of a building on one lot shall not be considered as the
setback or open space for a building on any other lot except where unity of title is provided for all affected
properties.
2. Structural intrusions. Structural overhangs, including but not limited to balconies, cornices, gutters, eaves,
and roof overhang projections shall not extend farther than three feet into any setback.
3. Sills and belt courses. Sills and belt courses may project 12 inches into a setback.
4. Mechanical equipment. Mechanical equipment may not project more than four feet into a setback. Window
air-conditioning units may not project more than 18 inches into a required side setback.
5. Awnings. Awnings shall not project more than four feet into any setback or be supported by any means other
than attachment to the building.
6. Wing walls. Wing walls shall conform to the normal setback requirements whenever they exceed the
allowable height of a fence.
7. Steps and porches. Steps, open uncovered porches or stoops, and open terraces which are three feet or less
above grade may encroach into any required setback area to a point not closer than two feet to the property
line. Any grade differential between the encroaching step, porch, stoop, or terrace and adjacent property shall
be structurally retained and positively drained in a manner that will prevent any drainage discharge to any
property contiguous to the side or rear property lines.
8. Bay windows. Bay windows may not project more than three feet into any front or rear setbacks, and not
more than 18 inches into any side setback.
9. Outside stairways. Outside stairways over three feet in height above grade shall meet all setback
requirements of the main structure.
10. Chimneys. Chimneys may project no more than 18 inches into any setback.
11. Railroad tracks. Side and rear setback requirements may be waived if yards abut a railroad track, siding or
easement. Construction of buildings shall be permitted up to the abutting side or rear property lines, except in
residential districts.
12. Access. Access drives meeting the provisions of section 94-312 may be placed in the required front, side, or
rear setback to provide access to accessory or attached structures. Sidewalks, terraces, or other similar
improvements in excess of nine inches above the grade shall not be permitted in any setback.
13. Obstructions prohibited. Required front, side, and rear setbacks shall be open and unobstructed by structures
from the ground to the sky except as specifically permitted by this section.
c. Additional setback requirements.
1. Multifrontage lots. Unless otherwise provided by this chapter, the required front setback shall be required for
all lots having frontage on more than one street.
2. Waterfront tidal setback. All residential principal and accessory structures on waterfront lots subject to tidal
action shall be set back at least 25 feet from the mean highwater mark. Where seawalls constructed on or
behind the mean highwater mark exist, the setback shall be at least 15 feet.
3. Fresh water setback. All residential principal and accessory uses located on nontidal waterfront lots shall be
set back at least ten feet from the mean highwater mark. The mean highwater mark shall be determined by
the overflow elevation of any controlling device, structure, pipe, or ditch.

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 1

d. Building setback lines on thoroughfare and future street lines. In addition to the setbacks required in any zoning
district by this chapter, additional building setback lines along designated portions of certain existing or proposed
road rights-of-way are required as provided in Table X-1. For the purposes of this section, the setbacks shall be
measured from the centerline of each road or right-of-way.
TABLE X-1:
LIST OF REQUIRED THOROUGHFARE RIGHT-OF-WAY SETBACKS AND REQUIRED STREET WIDTHS
(NUMBER OF LANES)
(Source: City of West Palm Beach Comprehensive Plan Transportation Element Appendix A)
ROADWAY SETBACK
(FROM CENTERLINE)

STREET NAME

Australian Avenue 1

53 feet - entire length

Belvedere Road

53 feet - I-95 to West City Limits
40 feet - Olive Avenue to I-95

Broadway
Centrepark Place
Clematis Street
Congress Avenue
Datura Street
Dixie Hwy
Quadrille Boulevard
Evernia Street
Evernia Street
Fern Street
Flagler Drive
Florida Avenue
Forest Hill
Georgia Avenue
Haverhill Rd
Jessamine Street
Jog Road 2
Lakeview Avenue
Loftin Street
Military Trail
Okeechobee Blvd

Olive Avenue

NUMBER OF LANES (THOROUGHFARE PLAN)

6 lanes
6 lanes - west of I-95
4 lanes - I-95 to Dixie Hwy
2 lanes - Dixie Hwy to Olive Ave
4 lanes
2 lanes

40 feet - entire length
25 feet - entire length
40 feet - Sapodilla Ave. to Tamarind Ave.
33 feet - Sapodilla Ave.
53 feet - Palm Beach Lakes Blvd to North City Limits
4 lanes
40 feet - Palm Beach Lakes Blvd to South City Limits
30 feet - South Dixie Hwy. to Tamarind Ave.
33 feet - South Dixie Hwy. to Narcissus Ave.
4 lanes - south of Okeechobee
40 feet - entire length to Okeechobee (3 lanes) and
2 lanes - Okeechobee to Banyan
Quadrille Blvd to 1st St. (5 lanes)
3 lanes - Banyan to Quadrille
100 feet - Loftin St. extension to Okeechobee Blvd
4 lanes
40 feet - South Olive Ave. to Tamarind Ave
33 feet - Olive Ave to Flagler Dr.
2 lanes
40 feet - South Olive Ave. to Tamarind Ave
2 lanes
30 feet - Olive Ave. to Flagler Dr.
40 feet - 36th St. south to City Limits
2 lanes
30 feet - Okeechobee Blvd to Clematis St.
2 lanes
4 lanes - w. of Dixie Hwy
40 feet - Flagler Dr. to West City Limits
2 lanes - e. of Dixie Hwy
30 feet - Clematis St to Okeechobee Blvd
2 lanes - Okeechobee Blvd to Forest
25 feet - Okeechobee to South City Limits
Hill
25 feet - Okeechobee to South City Limits
2 lanes - Clematis to Okeechobee
60 feet
4 lanes Road
30 feet - Dixie Hwy. to Lake Ave
2 lanes
120 feet - 240 feet (entire right-of-way width)
30 feet - Dixie Hwy. to Flagler Dr.
2 lanes - one way
50 feet - Flagler Dr. to the F.E.C. Railroad
5 lanes - west to Quadrille Blvd
60 feet
4 lanes
40 feet - Flagler Dr. to Dixie Hwy
2 lanes (one way)
40 feet - Dixie Hwy to Lake Avenue
3 lanes (one way)
60 feet - Lake Ave. to PBL Blvd
6 lanes
70 feet - PBL Blvd. to West City Limits
8 lanes
30 feet - PBL Blvd. to Southern Blvd
2 lanes - PBL Blvd to Okeechobee
35 feet - Southern Blvd to South City Limits
2 lanes - Okeechobee to Southern

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 2

TABLE X-1:
LIST OF REQUIRED THOROUGHFARE RIGHT-OF-WAY SETBACKS AND REQUIRED STREET WIDTHS
(NUMBER OF LANES)
(Source: City of West Palm Beach Comprehensive Plan Transportation Element Appendix A)
ROADWAY SETBACK
(FROM CENTERLINE)

STREET NAME

Palm Beach Lakes Blvd

Palmetto St.
Parker Avenue

Parker Avenue
Roebuck Road 2
Rosemary
Southern Blvd

State Road 7 2
Tamarind

Tanglewood Court
Trinity Place
Worthington Road
Banyan Blvd
15th Street
23rd Street
45th Street
54th Street

NUMBER OF LANES (THOROUGHFARE PLAN)

2 lanes - Southern to S. City Limits
100 feet - Okeechobee Blvd to Carver Ave.
6 lanes
60 feet - Carver Ave to Dixie Hwy
4 lanes
40 feet - Dixie Hwy. to Flagler Dr.
2 lanes
30 feet - entire length
40 feet - Okeechobee Blvd. to the Howard Park main
4 lanes
(community center) entrance
40 feet - Howard Park main (community center)
3 lanes
entrance to Belvedere Blvd
40 feet - Belvedere Blvd. to Southern Blvd.
3 lanes
40 feet - Southern Blvd. to Summit Blvd.
3 lanes
40 feet - Summit Blvd. to Forest Hill Blvd.
4 lanes
40 feet - Forest Hill Blvd. to Maddock St.
4 lanes
30 feet - Remainder of Parker Ave.
120 feet - 240 feet from State Road 7 to Jog Road
(entire right-of-way width)
th
30 feet - Clematis St. to 11 St.
4 lanes Avenue
th
30 feet - 25 St. to north terminus
53 feet - Parker Ave. to West City Limits
4 lanes
40 feet - Flagler Dr. to Parker Ave.
4 lanes Parker to Dixie Hwy
2 lanes Dixie Hwy to Flagler Dr.
160 feet (entire right-of-way width) north of
Okeechobee Blvd
40 feet - Okeechobee Blvd to 25 th St.
2 lanes - Gardenia to 25 th Street
2 lanes - Okeechobee Blvd to
Gardenia Street
15 feet - Dixie Hwy. to Flagler Dr.
20 feet - Dixie Hwy. to Flagler Dr.
25 feet - entire length
40 feet - Australian Ave to Quadrille Blvd
5 lanes
27 feet - Quadrille Blvd to Flagler Dr.
3 lanes
40 feet - Dixie Hwy. to the CSX Railroad
40 feet - Flagler Dr. to Dixie Hwy
30 feet - Dixie Hwy. to Seaboard Airline Railroad
60 feet - I-95 to Haverhill Road
40 feet - entire length
NOTES:

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 3

TABLE X-1:
LIST OF REQUIRED THOROUGHFARE RIGHT-OF-WAY SETBACKS AND REQUIRED STREET WIDTHS
(NUMBER OF LANES)
(Source: City of West Palm Beach Comprehensive Plan Transportation Element Appendix A)
STREET NAME

ROADWAY SETBACK
(FROM CENTERLINE)

NUMBER OF LANES (THOROUGHFARE PLAN)

1. The city does not support the widening of Australian Avenue, north of Banyan Boulevard, beyond its existing four-lane section due to the
impacts that it would have on the quality of life of the residents along this road.
2. The future development of Roebuck Road, State Road 7, and Jog Road is subject to all necessary environmental permitting processes.
Roebuck Road, State Road 7, and Jog Road are included in this table for the purpose of consistency with the Palm Beach County
Comprehensive Plan Maps TE 1.1 and 14.1 and the Palm Beach MPO Long Range Transportation Plan. This inclusion does not reflect the
city's position on the future development of these roads. The city acknowledges that removal of these roads from this table requires a
comprehensive plan amendment.The city is presently challenging the future development of Roebuck Road on environmental grounds.
There is a 1994 interlocal agreement (and the 1999 amendment to the agreement) between the county and the city regarding the alignment
for a future Roebuck Road, and a related 2007 Stipulated Settlement Agreement between the city and the county which provides that the
"City shall have the right and full opportunity to participate in the permitting aspects of the Roebuck Road Project, including environmental
permitting, and to object to the issuance of any and all permits necessary for the construction of the roadway improvements" and "in the
event the county is unable to obtain all necessary permits, including environmental permits event the county is unable to obtain all necessary
permits, including environmental permits required to complete this project, the deeds being held in escrow shall be null and void and returned
to the city within 14 days of being informed in writing that the County was unable to obtain the required permits." If the county receives
environmental permits for the Roebuck Road Project, the city will amend its comprehensive plan to remove references to Roebuck Road for
Note 2 of this table. If the county or the state receives environmental permits for the State Road 7 project, the city will amend its
comprehensive plan to remove references to State Road 7 from Note 2 of this table. If the city transfers property interests sought by the
county for the Jog Road extension to the county, then the city will amend its comprehensive plan to remove references to Jog Road from
Note 2 of this table.

e. Visibility at intersections. At any road intersections, visibility shall not be obscured by the construction, placement, or
maintenance of a structure wall, sign, fence, berm, plant material, shrubs, or any similar item between 18 inches or
eight feet in height within a triangle beginning at the point where property lines meet at the corner, then 20 feet
along the front property line, thence diagonally to a point along the side property line 20 feet from the point of
beginning, and thence to the point of beginning. In the event the corner of an intersection is rounded, the
measurement shall begin at the point the property lines would meet without rounding. (See Figure X-1)

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 4

FIGURE X-1:
VISIBILITY TRIANGLE

(Code 1979, § 33-112; Ord. No. 3744-04, § 4, 9-27-2004; Ord. No. 4370-11, § 3, 10-3-2011; Ord. No. 4449-13, § 24, 319-2013; Ord. No. 4660-16, § 9, 12-5-2016)

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 5

