Sec. 94-451. - Artificial turf.
a. The use and location of artificial turf shall be limited to the following:
1. The construction of non-city-owned athletic fields and playgrounds associated with a non-city-owned
community center, park, school, or university;
2. As part of the construction of any nonresidential development;
3. On roof top terraces;
4. On residential lots in the rear setback and side setback; or
5. In multifamily residential developments as part of a recreation or amenity area.
b. Artificial turf proposed under the provision of subsection (a)(1) above shall only be installed upon approval of a
class A special use permit, pursuant to the procedures and standards set forth in this chapter.
c. In all areas of installation, artificial turf shall be treated as impervious surface area. The quantity of artificial turf to be
incorporated into a project shall be limited by the maximum percentage of impervious surface for the subject
property within the applicable zoning district.
d. With the exception of those circumstances in which artificial turf is installed pursuant to subsection (a)(1) above,
artificial turf shall not be:
1. A part of any landscape buffers required by this article;
2. Visible from a road or street;
3. Installed within permanent drainage features (e.g., ponds, swales).
e. Minimum material standards. All artificial turf shall comply with each of the following minimum standards:
1. Artificial turf shall consist of green lifelike individual blades of grass that emulate natural turf in look and color.
2. Where artificial turf is utilized for institutional recreational uses (e.g., playgrounds, athletic fields), the artificial
turf product installed shall be designed for the intended use and meet the appropriate additional standards.
3. Artificial turf installations shall have a minimum permeability of 30 inches per hour per square yard.
4. All artificial turf shall have a minimum eight year manufacturer's warranty that protects against color fading
and a decrease in pile height.
5. Artificial turf shall be lead free.
6. All materials must include test documentation which declares that the artificial turf yarn and backing materials
are disposable under normal conditions, at any U.S. landfill station (Total Content Leach Protocol (TCLP)
test). Documentation must also be provided that identifies all components that are recyclable and all
components that consist of recycled material.
7. The use of indoor or outdoor plastic or nylon carpeting as a replacement for artificial turf or natural turf shall
be prohibited.
f. Installation, maintenance and repair .
1. All artificial turf shall, at a minimum, be installed according to the manufacturer's specifications.
2. All artificial turf installations shall be anchored to ensure that the turf will withstand the effects of wind.
3. All seams shall be secured and edges shall be trimmed to fit against all regular and irregular edges to
resemble a natural look.
4. If artificial turf is planned to be installed immediately adjacent to a seawall, the artificial turf shall be pinned or
staked behind the seawall. No artificial turf or installation mechanism shall be attached directly to or placed on
a seawall or seawall cap.
5. Proper drainage shall be provided for all artificial turf installations to prevent excess runoff or pooling of water.
6. Artificial turf shall be visually level, with the grain pointing in a single direction.
7. An appropriate solid barrier device (e.g., concrete mow strip, bender board) is required to separate artificial
turf from soil and live vegetation.

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 1

8. Precautions for installation around existing trees shall be monitored and may be restricted to ensure tree
roots are not damaged with the installation of the base material and that the overall health of the tree will not
be compromised
9. All artificial turf shall be maintained in a green fadeless condition and shall be maintained free of dirt, mud,
stains, weeds, debris, tears, holes, and impressions. Maintenance shall include, but not be limited to
cleaning, brushing, debris removal; repairing of depressions and ruts to maintain a visually-level surface;
elimination of any odors, flat or matted areas, weeds, and invasive roots; and all edges of the artificial turf
shall not be loose and must be maintained with appropriate edging or stakes.
10. All artificial turf must be replaced if it falls into disrepair with fading or holes or loose areas. Replacement
and/or repairs shall be done with like for like materials from the same manufacturer and done so in a manner
that results in a repair that blends in with the existing artificial turf.
g. An owner or applicant shall obtain a duly-authorized building permit from the city's development services
department prior to the installation of any artificial turf.
(Ord. No. 4420-12, ยง 2, 6-11-2012; Ord. No. 4689-16, ยง 11, 4-11-2017; Ord. No. 4756-17, ยง 7, 2-12-2018)

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 2

