Sec. 94-482. - Parking requirements for less than three residential dwelling units.
a. Location and surface. Required off-street parking spaces for less than three residential dwelling units shall be
provided on the property on which the units are located. Required parking may be located in a front yard; however,
the lesser of 1,000 square feet or 75 percent of the front yard area shall be landscaped with living plant material
(such as grass, ground cover, shrubs, hedges, vines or trees).
Notwithstanding the preceding paragraph, locations where off-street parking spaces, driveways, patios and/or
walkways in the front yard exclusively consist of a permeable paver system, 60 percent of the front yard area shall
be landscaped with living plant material (such as grass, ground cover, shrubs, hedges, vines or trees).
Parking areas located in the front yard shall be surfaced with a nondusting surface in compliance with subsection
94-485(e). It shall be a violation of this chapter to park on any unpaved areas as described in this article.
b. Configuration. Required off-street parking areas shall consist of a parking bay, stall, driveway, garage, or
combination thereof. Refer to subsection 94-312(1)b.3 for access point requirements.
c. Retention of required off-street parking spaces. Required off-street parking spaces shall not be replaced by any
other on-site facility unless equal parking facilities are provided elsewhere. Off-street parking spaces existing on the
effective date of the ordinance from which this article is derived shall not be reduced to an amount less than
required.
d. Setback from property lines; repair and replacement.
1. New off-street parking spaces and driveways within a front yard or a corner side yard shall be set back a
minimum of five feet from a front and/or corner side property line and three feet from a side or rear property
line, except for that portion of the driveway adjoining the apron.
2. Expansions to existing off-street parking spaces and driveways within a front yard or a corner side yard shall
be set back a minimum of five feet from a front and/or corner side property line and three feet from a side or
rear property line, except for that portion of the driveway adjoining the apron.
3. Existing off-street parking spaces and driveways which are not set back a minimum of five feet from a front or
corner side property line and three feet from a side or rear property line may be repaired as part of normal
maintenance.
4. Existing off-street parking spaces and driveways which are not set back a minimum of five feet from a front
and/or corner side property line and three feet from a side or rear property line may be replaced in the exact
location or with a greater setback than currently exists.
5. For circular driveways the interior arc may be an irregular shape, but shall have a minimum radius of five feet,
as depicted in Figure XV-1. The interior arc shall be landscaped with living plant material.

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 1

FIGURE XV-1

(Code 1979, ยง 33-171; Ord. No. 4370-11, ยง 4, 10-3-2011; Ord. No. 4660-16, ยง 11, 12-5-2016; Ord. No. 4758-17, ยง 4, 129-2018)

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 2

