Sec. 94-148. - Professional office residential (POR) district.
Development standards for the professional office residential (POR) district shall be as follows:
1. Minimum lot dimensions:
a. Lot area: 5,000 square feet.
b. Lot width: 50 feet.
2. Minimum setbacks:
a. Front: 25 feet.
b. Corner: 15 feet.
c. Side: ten feet.
d. Interior side: ten feet.
e. Rear: 15 feet.
3. Maximum coverage by nonresidential buildings: 60 percent.
4. Maximum lot coverage (nonresidential) by impermeable surface: 85 percent.
5. Minimum required open space and landscape areas for nonresidential uses:
a. Minimum required open space: 40 percent.
b. Minimum required landscape area: 15 percent.
6. Maximum nonresidential building height: 40 feet or two feet in height for each one foot setback from side and rear
setbacks, whichever is greater.
7. Building separation: zero feet or not less than ten feet.
8. Maximum floor area ratio:
a. Lot: 0.50.
b. Planned development: 0.75.
9. Residential density. The maximum density under the POR district shall be 14 dwelling units per acre.
10. Mixed-uses. A project may utilize up to 100 percent of the allowable residential density, 100 percent of the
allowable office intensity, or a portion of the allowable residential and a portion of the allowable office uses. For
example: if developing with both residential and office uses, an owner chooses to develop 60 percent of the
allowable residential density then they may also develop up to 40 percent of the allowable office intensity. If both
office and residential uses are proposed on a site, they shall be located in the same building.
11. Mixed-uses parking. The number of parking spaces provided for any mixed-use structure constructed pursuant to
the provisions of this section shall reflect the percentage of gross floor area apportioned to each use. The number
of parking spaces shall be determined pursuant to the provisions of ARTICLE XV of this chapter. Any residential
structure converted in whole or in part to a professional office, community residence or recovery community shall
provide parking as required in ARTICLE XV of this chapter.
12. Additional landscape requirements. Any residential structure converted in whole or in part to a professional office or
group home use shall provide a landscape buffer of at least five feet along the perimeter of all parking areas. The
landscape buffer shall consist of hedges, shrubs, and trees as provided in ARTICLE XIV of this chapter.
13. Signage. Notwithstanding the provisions of ARTICLE XIII of this chapter, signage shall conform to the following:
a. Low freestanding signs: One single-faced low freestanding sign shall be permitted, not to exceed four feet in
height and four feet in width. Signs of this nature shall be located at least ten feet from any public right-of-way
or property line, and shall conform to the visibility at intersection requirements of subsection 94-305(e).
b. Wall, facade, canopy, marquee, and related building-mounted signs: One sign, located on any building side
shall be permitted, not to exceed the lesser of one percent of gross wall area or 16 square feet.
c. Other sign requirements: With the exception of the sign limitations provided in subsections (a) and (b) of this
section, all signs shall meet the requirements of ARTICLE XIII of this chapter.

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 1

14. Accessory uses. Accessory uses and structures shall include, but are not limited to private recreational facilities,
sheds, unattached sheds, tennis courts, swimming pools, and retail sales associated with medical offices. Retail
sales associated with medical offices shall not exceed 20 percent of the gross floor area of the principal use.
15. Skilled Nursing and Rehabilitation facilities. Facilities and structures shall conform to the provisions of the MF32
(multifamily high density) residential district. (See section 94-77.) Densities for skilled nursing and rehabilitation
facilities are established as follows:
a. Nursing homes, convalescent, rehabilitation and extended care facilities, and related uses:
1. Lot: 2.5 beds for each dwelling unit permitted under the provisions of the MF32 zoning district.
2. Planned district: 3.0 beds for each dwelling unit permitted under the provisions of the MF32 zoning
district.
b. Skilled nursing and rehabilitation facilities and other congregate living facilities: Density will be determined
considering the anticipated impact of a proposed facility. Facilities of this nature may contain minimal kitchen
equipment such as microwave ovens and small refrigerators subject to approval by the planning director.
(Code 1979, § 33-68; Ord. No. 4449-13, § 14, 3-19-2013; Ord. No. 4957-21, § 6, 11-15-2021; Ord. No. 5014-22, § 3, 0822-2022)
Cross reference— Businesses and business regulations, ch. 22.

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 2

