Sec. 94-145. - General commercial (GC) district.
Development standards for the general commercial (GC) district shall be as follows:
1. Minimum lot dimensions:
a. Lot area: 5,000 square feet.
b. Lot width: 50 feet.
2. Minimum setbacks:
a. Front: five feet if building is 50 feet or less in height; 20 feet for building height more than 50 feet, but less
than 60 feet; six feet additional setback for each ten feet over 60 feet in height;
b. Corner: five feet, except as provided in subsection 94-305(e);
c. Side: five feet if building is 50 feet or less in height; 15 feet when abutting a residential district or when
building height is more than 50 feet but less than 60 feet in height; six feet additional setback for each ten feet
over 60 feet in height;
d. Rear: five feet, or 15 feet when abutting a residential district.
3. Maximum lot coverage by buildings: 60 percent.
4. Maximum lot coverage by impermeable surface: 85 percent.
5. Minimum required open space and landscape areas:
a. Minimum required open space area: 40 percent.
b. Minimum required landscape area: 15 percent.
6. Maximum building height. None. However, if a structure abuts a residential zoning district the maximum height of
that structure shall not exceed 30 feet. Structures abutting a residential zoning district in excess of 30 feet shall
provide the following additional setback:
a. One foot of height above 30 feet for each two feet of setback when abutting a single-family residential zoning
district;
b. One foot of height above 30 feet for each one foot of setback when abutting any multifamily residential zoning
district.
7. Minimum building separation: Zero feet or not less than ten feet.
8. Maximum floor area ratio:
a. 0.75 with a commercial (C) future land use designation.
b. 1.00 for a planned development with a commercial (C) future land use designation.
c. 0.75 with a commercial east (CE) future land use designation.
d. 1.5 for a planned development with a commercial east (CE) future land use designation.
9. Maximum density:
a. 20 dwelling units per acre if in a commercial east (CE) future land use designation and residential is
developed in conjunction with nonresidential development.
b. 32.27 dwelling units per acre if developed as a planned development in a commercial east (CE) future land
use designation and residential is developed in conjunction with nonresidential development.
10. Buildings or projects located on parcels with a commercial east (CE) future land use designation may develop either
entirely with nonresidential uses, or as a mixed-use building or multiple-use project containing both nonresidential
and residential uses. Projects shall not be developed entirely with residential uses.
11. Projects may be constructed up to the maximum square footage allowed by the floor area ratio (FAR). All
nonresidential and residential use square footages shall be accounted for within the maximum allowed FAR. For the
purposes of this section, FAR includes air-conditioned or fully enclosed storage spaces, enclosed areas on the
rooftop such as bathrooms and lobbies, stairs and elevator areas, and external unenclosed circulation areas. The
FAR calculation shall not include parking areas; unenclosed colonnades, porches and balconies; mechanical and

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 1

electrical spaces; trash rooms; and storage spaces without windows and enclosed by surfaces that allow for natural
ventilation or outside air circulation. The floor area shall be measured from the outside face of exterior walls.
12. More than 50 percent of the first floor of mixed-use buildings shall be used for nonresidential uses.
(Code 1979, § 33-65; Ord. No. 4449-13, § 11, 3-19-2013)
Cross reference— Businesses and business regulations, ch. 22.

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 2

