Sec. 94-146. - Commercial marine (CM) district.
a. Use restrictions. The following uses are permitted within the commercial marine (CM) district: Uses permitted are
listed in ARTICLE IX of this chapter.
b. Development standards. Development standards for the commercial marine (CM) district shall be as follows:
1. Minimum lot dimensions:
a. Lot area: 5,000 square feet.
b. Lot width: 50 feet.
2. Minimum setbacks:
a. Front: five feet, 25 feet when abutting a residential zoning district.
b. Corner: 15 feet.
c. Side: five feet, 25 feet when abutting a residential zoning district.
d. Rear: zero feet.
3. Minimum building separation: 20 feet.
4. Maximum lot coverage by buildings: 60 percent.
5. Maximum lot coverage by impermeable surface: 75 percent.
6. Maximum building height: 200 feet.
7. Minimum required open space and landscape areas for nonresidential uses:
a. Minimum required open space area: 40 percent.
b. Minimum required landscape area: 25 percent.
8. Maximum floor area ratio:
a. 0.75 with a commercial (C) future land use designation.
b. 1.00 for a planned development with a commercial (C) future land use designation.
c. 0.75 with a commercial east (CE) future land use designation.
d. 1.0 for a planned development with a commercial east (CE) future land use designation.
9. Maximum density: 32.27 du/ac if in commercial east (CE) future land use designation and residential is
developed in conjunction with nonresidential development.
10. Buildings or projects located on parcels with a commercial east (CE) future land use designation may develop
either entirely with nonresidential uses, or as a mixed-use building or multiple-use project containing both
nonresidential and residential uses. Projects shall not be developed entirely with residential uses.
11. Projects may be constructed up to the maximum square footage allowed by the floor area ratio (FAR). All
nonresidential and residential use square footages shall be accounted for within the maximum allowed FAR.
For the purposes of this section, FAR includes air-conditioned or fully enclosed storage spaces, enclosed
areas on the rooftop such as bathrooms and lobbies, stairs and elevator areas, and external unenclosed
circulation areas. The FAR calculation shall not include parking areas; unenclosed colonnades, porches and
balconies; mechanical and electrical spaces; trash rooms; and storage spaces without windows and enclosed
by surfaces that allow for natural ventilation or outside air circulation. The floor area shall be measured from
the outside face of exterior walls.
12. More than 50 percent of the first floor of mixed-use buildings shall be used for nonresidential uses.
(Code 1979, § 33-66; Ord. No. 4449-13, § 12, 3-19-2013)
Cross reference— Businesses and business regulations, ch. 22.

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 1

