Sec. 94-5. - Rules for interpretation of district boundaries.
When uncertainty exists as to boundaries of the districts on the official zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
1. Centerlines. Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of streets, highway, and alleys shall be
construed as following such lines.
2. Lot section and tract lines. Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of streets, highways,
and alleys shall be construed as following such lines.
3. Political boundaries. Boundaries indicated as approximately following political boundaries shall be construed to be
following such political boundaries.
4. Railroad lines. Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed to be following the centerline of
the railroad right-of-way.
5. Shorelines and bulkheads. Boundaries indicated as following shorelines and bulkheads shall be construed to be
following such, and in the event of change, shall be construed to be moving with such change. Boundaries indicated
as approximately following the centerline of streams, rivers, canals, or other bodies of water shall be construed to
be following such centerline.
6. Parallel lines. Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features indicated in subsections (1) through (5)
of this section shall be construed. Distances not specifically indicated on the official zoning map shall be determined
by the scale of the map.
7. Bisecting lines. Where district boundary lines approximately bisect blocks, the boundaries are the median line of
such blocks between the centerlines of boundary streets.
8. Uncertainties. Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground are at variance with those shown on the
official zoning map or in case any other uncertainty exists, the zoning board of appeals shall interpret the intent of
the official zoning map as to the location of district boundaries.
9. Street abandonments. Where a public road, street, or alley is officially vacated or abandoned, the regulations
applicable to the property to which it reverted shall apply to such vacated or abandoned road, street, or alley.
10. Excluded areas. Where a parcel of land or water area has been inadvertently excluded from a zoning district
classification in any manner, until changed at public hearing, such parcel shall be classified in conformance with the
district which surrounds it and which is most restrictive adjacent to it.
(Code 1979, ยง 33-5)

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 1

