Sec. 94-9. - Violations and penalties.
a. Whenever a violation of this chapter occurs or is alleged to have occurred, any person may file a written complaint.
Such a complaint stating fully the causes and basis thereof shall be filed with the planning and zoning administrator.
The planning and zoning administrator shall record properly such complaint, investigate and take action thereon as
provided by this chapter, and maintain a public record of the outcome of the investigation and action concerning
such complaint.
b. Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of its requirements shall be unlawful. Any
person violating any of the provisions of this chapter, who shall fail to abide by and obey all orders and regulations
promulgated as provided in this chapter, shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine not exceeding
$500.00 or by imprisonment. Each day such violation is continued, the violation shall be considered a separate
offense.
c. The owner or tenant of any building, structure, premises, or part thereof, and any architect, engineer, builder,
contractor, agent, or other person who commits, participates in, assists in, or maintains such violation may each be
found guilty of a separate offense and suffer the penalties provided in this section.
d. In case any building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted or maintained
or any building, structure, land, or water is used in violation of this chapter, the city, in addition to its other remedies
as provided in this chapter, may institute in a court of competent jurisdiction any appropriate action or proceeding to
prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance or use, to
enjoin, re-strain, correct or abate such violation to prevent the occupancy of such building, structure, land, or water
or to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business or use in or about such premises.
e. Nothing contained in this section shall prevent the city from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation, including all available code enforcement measures and penalties contained in
chapter 26.
(Code 1979, ยง 33-9)

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 1

