Sec. 94-512. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Abandonment. A discontinuation or interruption of a nonconforming use beyond the time limitation established in this

article, where the user has not actively and diligently sought to maintain the use or the necessary equipment for the use,
unless such interruption has been directly caused by a governmental action.
Legal nonconformity. For purposes of this chapter, a legal nonconformity consists of and is defined as a use, characteristic

of use, lot, structure, accessory facility, or combination thereof, that does not comply with the current regulations of the
zoning district in which the use, characteristic of use, lot, structure, accessory facility, or combination thereof, is located,
but which was lawfully established or constructed in accordance with the applicable regulations or approvals at that time.
Lot of record. A lot which is part of a platted subdivision or a parcel of land described by a deed, for which the subdivision

plat or deed has been recorded in the office of the clerk of the circuit court of Palm Beach County and at the time of
recordation, met the regulations for required lot width and area.
Nonconforming. For purposes of this chapter, nonconforming means a use, lot, structure, accessory facility, landscaping

or parking area that does not comply with the current regulations of the zoning district in which the use, lot, structure,
accessory facility, landscaping or parking area is located, yet which was lawfully established or constructed in accordance
with the then-current regulations or otherwise approved by the city.
Parking area. For purposes of this article, parking area means a site or a portion of a site, devoted to the off-street parking

of vehicles, including parking spaces, aisles, access drives, and landscaped areas, and provide vehicular access to a
street.
(Ord. No. 4714-17, ยง 3, 9-14-2017)

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 1

