Sec. 94-79. - Historic residential design standards.
The following design standards are intended to work in conjunction with the City of West Palm Beach Design Guidelines
for Historic Districts and Sites. Both the standards and guidelines will be used to evaluate if a structure or proposed
modification is compatible with the surrounding properties in terms of design features, as well as size, scale and massing.
a. Measurement of dimensional standards.
1. Finished ground floor is the finished surface of the ground floor.
2. Natural grade is the grade unaffected by construction techniques such as fill, landscaping or berming. For
purposes of historic residential districts, natural grade shall be considered the existing grade at the time of
rezoning as a historic residential district. For properties on a slope the mean elevation shall be utilized.
3. Overall height is measured as the vertical distance in feet from finished grade to the highest point of the roof
for flat roofs; to the deck line for mansard roofs; and to the average height between eaves and the ridge for
gable, hip and gambrel roofs. Where finished grade is more than two feet above natural grade, overall height
shall be measured from two feet above natural grade. Finished grade shall not exceed required minimum
flood regulations. See section 94-306 for limited height exceptions.
4. Side stepbacks are measured from the side property line and apply to portions of the building above the
maximum wall height.
5. Wall height is measured as the vertical distance in feet from the finished ground floor to the top of the top
plate at the top of the wall. Where the finished ground floor height is greater than two feet above finished
grade, wall height will be measured from two feet above finished grade. If flood regulations require a finished
ground floor height greater than two feet, wall height may be measured from the finished ground floor height
required by flood regulations. For calculating maximum wall height, the minimum side setback shall be used
on both sides of the lot rather than any increased side setback required by a cumulative side setback
standard. For example, if the minimum side setback on one side is five feet and the minimum total for both
sides is 15 feet, the maximum wall height shall be measured at a five-foot setback on both sides.

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 1

FIGURE III-1

Measurement of dimensional standards where a structure is built to the maximum permitted wall height at the minimum side setback.

b. Contextual front setback standards.
1. Contextual front setback for non-corner lots. The minimum front setback on a non-corner lot shall be within
the range of front setbacks established by the principal structures on the two non-corner properties along the
same side of the street on each side of the subject property (must use four properties total). Properties that
are not within the same zoning district as the subject property shall not be considered for purposes of
calculating the minimum front setback. Where a front setback for the principal structure has not been
established on one or more of the two non-corner properties along the same side of the street on each side of
the subject property, the minimum front setback set forth in the schedule of district regulations shall apply.
FIGURE III-2

In this example, the contextual front setback standard for the subject property indicated by the arrow is established by the principal structures on
the two properties on either side. The front setback on the subject property could be anywhere within the dashed lines.

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 2

2. Contextual front setback for corner lots. The minimum front setback on a corner lot shall either be within the
range of front setbacks established by the principal structures on the two closest properties along the same
side of the street and on the same block as the designated front of the subject property (two properties total).
Where the minimum front setback set forth in the schedule of district regulations is less than that established
by the principle structures on the two closest properties along the same side of the street and on the same
block as the designated front of the subject property, the lesser setback shall apply. For corner lots with one
side on Flagler Drive, the front of the property shall be Flagler Drive for purposes of calculating the minimum
front setback. Properties that are not within the same zoning district as the subject property shall not be
considered for purposes of calculating the minimum front setback. Where the front setback for the principal
structure has not been established on one or more of the two closest properties along the same side of the
street as the designated front of the subject property, the minimum front setback set forth in the schedule of
district regulations shall apply.
c. Additional wall height standards. The maximum wall height may increase by one foot for each one foot of side
setback that is additional to the minimum side setback. For example, if the minimum side setback is five feet, and
the maximum wall height is 13 feet, the maximum wall height at a ten-foot side setback would be 18 feet.
d. Additional side stepback standards. For walls built above the maximum wall height at the minimum side setback, a
stepback shall be required as set forth in section 94-241.5, Table VIII 1.5. Sloped roofs may be built above the
maximum wall height within the minimum stepback area. Where a building is set back from the side property line by
an amount equal to or greater than the minimum stepback, no stepback shall be required.
FIGURE III-3

A side stepback is required for walls built above the maximum wall
height at the minimum side setback. In this example, the maximum
wall height is built at the side setback and the minimum stepback is
provided for the portion of the wall built above the maximum wall
height. A sloped roof is built within the minimum stepback area.

The maximum wall height may increase by one foot for each one foot
of side setback that is additional to the minimum side setback. In this
example, ten feet of additional side setback is provided, allowing the
wall height to increase by ten feet above the maximum wall height at
the side setback. Because the building is setback from the side
property line by an amount equal to or greater than the minimum
stepback, no stepback is required.

e. Additional garage door standards.
1. Location of garage doors. To ensure that new buildings relate to the street in a manner that is similar to that
seen contextually, front facing garage doors shall be set back from the front facade by the distance specified
in the schedule of district regulations. Garage doors not oriented toward the front property line and not visible
from the public right-of-way shall be exempted from this standard. Alternative standards for the location of
front facing garage doors are provided in section 94-85(i).

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 3

FIGURE III-4

Front facing garage door set back from front facade.

Garage door with a perpendicular orientation to the front facade.

(Ord. No. 4265-10, ยง 6 (Exh. 1), 5-17-2010)

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 4

