Sec. 94-78. - Historic residential districts.
a. Historic residential districts established. In order to preserve and protect the existing character, to ensure that new
buildings are compatible with each other and with the existing urban fabric, and to promote the desired future
character of the historic residential districts of West Palm Beach, a series of residential historic districts is
established. These districts are patterned on the existing residential districts applicable in the city; however,
development standards based on the particular context in which the districts are located have been derived, as set
forth in the following sections (see Table III-2 below for summary of districts).
TABLE III-2:
HISTORIC RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS
ZONING DISTRICT

RESIDENTIAL
CONTEXT

SF7-C4

Single-Family Low Density,
Low Scale Historic Residential
District

Context 4

SF14-C2

Single-Family High Density,
Medium Scale Historic
Residential District

Context 2

SF14-C3

Single-Family High Density,
Large Scale Historic
Residential District
Single-Family High Density,
Waterfront Historic Residential
District
Multifamily Low Density,
Historic Residential District
Multifamily Low Density,
Urban Historic Residential
District
Northwest District Residential

Context 3

Multifamily Medium Density,
Urban Historic Residential
District
Multifamily High Density,
Urban Historic Residential
District

Context 1

SF14-C5

MF14-C2
MF14-C1

NWD-R-C1
MF20-C1

MF32-C1

Context 5

Context 2
Context 1

Context 1

Context 1

APPLICABLE HISTORIC DISTRICTS

Northwood Harbor
Northwood Hills
West Northwood
Vedado/Hillcrest
Belair
Flamingo Park
Grandview Heights (SF14 only)
Mango Promenade (SF14 only)
Northboro Park
El Cid (SF14 non-waterfront only)
Old Northwood
Prospect/Southland Park (non waterfront only)
Belair (waterfront only)
El Cid (waterfront only)
Prospect/Southland Park (waterfront only)
Northwest
(area north of Palm Beach Lakes Blvd.)
Grandview Heights (MF14 only)

Northwest
(area south of PB Lakes Blvd., NWD-R portion only)
Central Park

El Cid (MF32 only)
Mango Promenade (MF32 only)

b. In addition to the development standards for each residential historic district and their corresponding residential
contexts, a series of design standards shall also apply, which promote the character and compatibility of these
historic residential areas (see section 94-79). Designs within the historic district are also subject to the historic
preservation ordinance, the City of West Palm Beach Design Guidelines, the Secretary of the Interior's Standards
for Rehabilitation and reviewed by the Historic Preservation Planner or designee or board per the board approved
review matrix.

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 1

c. For any development regulation not specifically addressed in section 94-80 through section 94-84, the related
zoning category for non-historic zoning areas shall apply.
(Ord. No. 4265-10, ยง 6 (Exh. 1), 5-17-2010)

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 2

