Sec. 94-73. - Single-family/small lot (SF11) high density residential district.
a. Applicability. The single-family/small lot (SF11) high density residential district shall be utilized only in that area of
the city within which small lots predominate, generally referred to as Coleman Park, located as follows: north of 15th
Street, south of 23rd Street, east of the Florida East Coast Railroad tracks, and west of the Seaboard Coastline
Railroad tracks; consisting of the following platted subdivisions: Grant Park, Lincoln Park, Gray's Addition to Grant
Park, Josey's Subdivision (unrecorded), Johnson's Subdivision, Tamarind Park, Washington Heights, and Dunbar
Village. This district shall not be utilized in areas of the city possessing vacant, unplatted land or vacant, platted
land with lots containing 5,000 or more square feet.
b. Property development regulations. The maximum dwelling units per acre for the single-family/small lot (SF11) high
density residential district is found in section 94-241, table VIII-1. The property development regulations shall be as
follows:
1. Minimum lot dimensions.
a. Lot area: 3,500 square feet;
b. Lot width: 40 feet.
2. Minimum setbacks for principal buildings.
a. Front: 20 feet or 20 percent of lot depth, whichever is less;
b. Corner: ten feet or ten percent of lot depth, whichever is less;
c. Rear: ten feet or ten percent of lot depth, whichever is less;
d. Side: five feet minimum, ten feet total.
3. Maximum building height. Maximum building height shall be 30 feet.
4. Accessory structure. The following structures shall be permitted when accessory to uses permitted by right or
when accessory to uses permitted pursuant to subsection 94-71(d)(1):
a. Fences and walls as provided in section 94-302;
b. Signs as provided in section 94-407;
c. Swimming pools, tennis courts and similar recreation facilities as provided in subsection 94-71(b);
d. Other accessory structures customarily incidental to uses permitted by right or as special uses pursuant
to ARTICLE IX of this chapter.
5. Minimum setbacks for accessory buildings. See subsection 94-71(b).
c. Permitted uses. Uses permitted within this district are provided in the schedule of permitted uses.
d. Off-street parking. Notwithstanding any other provision of the parking regulations of this chapter, single-family
dwelling units within the SF11 district shall provide at least one standard parking space per dwelling unit.
(Ord. No. 4449-13, ยง 7, 3-19-2013)

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 1

