Sec. 94-405. - Computation of sign area.
a. Computation of sign area and number. Computation of sign area for signs not covered by section 94-409 and
except as provided in subsection (b) of this section: the area of each face of a sign shall be the area of the smallest
circle, triangle, or parallelogram, which contains all content, background, and structural elements of the sign. Sign
area shall not include structural elements which function solely as support for the sign or cover of structural
elements.
b. Computation of sign area for signs which consist only of letters and numbers which are individually painted on or
otherwise attached to a building wall, decorative landscape wall, screen wall, marquee, or canopy or awning. The
area of each face of a sign which consists only of letters and numbers which are individually painted on or otherwise
attached to a building wall, decorative landscape wall, screen wall, marquee, canopy, or awning shall be computed
as in subsection (a) of this section. However, the maximum area of signs covered by this section shall be 20
percent larger than the maximum area otherwise permitted by this article.
c. Certain support structures exempted from computation of area of freestanding signs. Support structures which are
part of a decorative landscape wall or screen wall shall not be considered to be part of a freestanding sign.
d. Determination of the number of signs. Any collection of sign content, sign background, and sign structure may be
considered to be one sign face if the area of such sign face is measured as only one circle or only one triangle or
only one parallelogram, provided that the area so measured conforms to the maximum sign area requirements of
this article.
e. Placement, vertical dimension, construction, and finish of signs. It is the intent of these sign placement, vertical
dimension, construction, and finish regulations to preserve and enhance the aesthetic quality of the environment by
reducing the visual discordance which can result from:
1. The haphazard placement of signs on buildings; and
2. The use of an array of different sign constructions on one building.
It is recognized that this intent may be met by approaches other than those specifically set forth in this
section. Accordingly, this section makes provisions for approval of signs which conform to the intent of this
section but which do not conform to the specific requirements of subsections (h) and (i) of this section.
f. Placement of signs attached to building walls in relation to building lines. Signs shall be placed on a building so as
not to break important horizontal or vertical building lines. This requirement will be considered met if none of the
following types of lines are broken:
1. Cornice line;
2. Lintel lines, actual and extended;
3. Sill lines, actual and extended;
4. Belt course lines;
5. Column and pilaster lines.
This requirement may be considered met even if one or more of the types of lines in subsections (f)(1)—(5) of this
section are broken if the building is designed so that a permitted sign cannot be located without breaking one or
more of the above lines and the sign or signs are placed to minimize the breaking of important building lines.
g. Vertical dimension of wall mounted signs in relations to building facade elements. The maximum vertical dimension
of a wall-mounted sign shall be no more than 40 percent of the vertical face dimension of the facade element
(parapet, spandrel, facia, or other facade element) on which it is mounted. This requirement shall be considered
met even if all or a portion of a sign exceeds in vertical dimension 40 percent of the vertical dimension of the facade
element on which it is mounted if the building is designed so that a permitted sign cannot be located without
exceeding the 40 percent limit of any building facade element.
h. Coordination of construction type of wall-mounted signs. Whenever more than two wall-mounted signs are
permitted on any one building, all may be, and all except one must be of the same construction type (cabinet,
individual pan-channel letters, individual reverse pan-channel letters, or other). In addition, all may be and all except

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 1

one must have the same base line if they are individual letters mounted on the building facade, and must have the
same base and top line if they are of any other construction type.
i. Finish of sign background and sign structure. Low freestanding signs shall have a background and structure which
is of a material, color, and finish that is used extensively in the building to which the sign is accessory. A material,
color, and finish will be considered to be used extensively if it covers more of the nonglass portions of the highly
visible surfaces of the building than does any other material, or if it covers at least 30 percent of the nonglass
portions of the highly visible surfaces of the building.
j. Alternate approaches. Signs which do not conform to one or more of the requirements set forth in subsections (a)—
(i) of this section may be approved if the review authority finds on the basis of sufficient facts that the intent set forth
in section 94-401 is met. Such a finding shall only be made based on a written analysis and recommendation from a
recognized design professional.
(Code 1979, § 33-154)

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 2

