Sec. 94-149. - Railroad Transition District (RTD).
Development standards for the railroad transition district shall be as follows:
1. Minimum lot dimensions:
a. Lot area: 5,000 square feet.
b. Lot width: 50 feet.
2. Minimum setbacks:
a. Front: 25 feet.
b. Corner: 15 feet.
c. Side: ten feet.
d. Rear: 15 feet.
3. Maximum lot coverage by buildings: 60 percent.
4. Maximum lot coverage by impermeable surface: 85 percent.
5. Minimum required open space and landscape areas:
a. Minimum required open space: 40 percent.
b. Minimum required landscape area: 15 percent.
6. Maximum building height: 40 feet or two feet in height for each one foot setback from side and rear setbacks,
whichever is greater.
7. Building separation: zero feet or not less than ten feet.
8. Maximum floor area ratio: 0.50
9. Residential density. The maximum density under the RTD district shall be 14 dwelling units per acre.
10. Mixed-uses. A project may utilize up to 100 percent of the allowable residential density, 100 percent of the
allowable non-residential intensity, or a portion of the allowable residential and a portion of the allowable nonresidential. For example: if developing with both residential and non-residential uses, an owner may choose to
develop 60 percent of the allowable residential density and then may also develop up to 40 percent of the allowable
non-residential intensity.
11. Parking. The number of parking spaces shall be determined pursuant to the provisions of ARTICLE XV of this
chapter. Any residential structure converted in whole or in part to a non-residential use shall provide parking as
required in ARTICLE XV of this chapter.
12. Additional landscape requirements. Any residential structure converted in whole or in part to a non-residential use
shall provide a landscape buffer of at least five feet along the perimeter of all parking areas and any adjacent
residential zoning district. The landscape buffer shall consist of hedges, shrubs, and trees as provided in ARTICLE
XIV of this chapter.
13. Signage. Notwithstanding the provisions of ARTICLE XIII of this chapter, signage shall conform to the following:
a. Low freestanding signs: One single-faced low freestanding sign shall be permitted, not to exceed four feet in
height and four feet in width. Signs of this nature shall be located at least ten feet from any public right-of-way
or property line, and shall conform to the visibility at intersection requirements of subsection 94-305(e).
b. Wall, Façade, canopy, marquee, and related building-mounted signs: One sign, located on any building side
shall be permitted, not to exceed the lesser of one percent of gross wall area or 16 square feet.
c. Other sign requirements: With the exception of the sign limitations provided in subsections (a) and (b) of this
section, all signs shall meet the requirements of ARTICLE XIII of this chapter.
14. Accessory uses. Accessory uses and structures shall include, but are not limited to private recreational facilities,
sheds, unattached sheds, tennis courts, swimming pools, and retail sales associated with medical offices. Retail
sales associated with medical offices shall not exceed 20 percent of the gross floor area of the principal use.
(Ord. No. 4620-16, § 4, 4-25-2016)

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 1

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 2

