Sec. 94-143. - Office commercial (OC) district.
Development standards in the office commercial (OC) district shall be as follows:
1. Minimum lot dimensions:
a. Lot area: 5,000 square feet.
b. Lot width: 50 feet.
2. Minimum setbacks:
a. Front: 25 feet.
b. Corner: 12.5 feet.
c. Side: ten feet.
d. Interior side: ten feet.
e. Rear: 15 feet.
3. Maximum lot coverage by buildings: 60 percent.
4. Maximum lot coverage by impermeable surface: 85 percent.
5. Minimum required open space and landscape areas for nonresidential uses:
a. Minimum required open space area: 40 percent.
b. Minimum required landscape area: 15 percent.
6. Maximum building height. None. However, if a structure abuts a residential zoning district, the maximum height of
the structure shall not exceed 30 feet except that structures abutting residential zoning districts in excess of 30 feet
shall provide the following additional setbacks:
a. One foot of height above 30 feet for each three feet of setback when abutting any single-family residential
zoning district; or
b. One foot of height above 30 feet for each two feet of setback when abutting any multifamily residential zoning
district.
7. Minimum building separation. Zero feet or not less than ten feet.
8. Maximum floor area ratio:
a. 0.75 with a commercial (C) future land use designation.
b. 1.50 for a planned development with a commercial (C) future land use designation.
c. 0.75 with a commercial east (CE) future land use designation.
d. 1.50 for a planned development with a commercial east (CE) future land use designation.
9. Maximum density: 14 dwelling units per acre and are only permitted if the corresponding future land use
designation is commercial east (CE).
10. Buildings or projects located on parcels with a commercial east (CE) future land use designation may develop either
entirely with nonresidential uses, or as a mixed-use building or multiple-use project containing both nonresidential
and residential uses. Projects shall not be developed entirely with residential uses.
11. Projects may be constructed up to the maximum nonresidential square footage allowed by the floor area ratio (FAR)
and the maximum number of units allowed by the residential density. All nonresidential square footages shall be
accounted for within the maximum allowed FAR. For the purposes of this section, FAR includes air-conditioned or
fully enclosed storage spaces, enclosed areas on the rooftop such as bathrooms and lobbies, stairs and elevator
areas, and external unenclosed circulation areas. The FAR calculation shall not include parking areas; unenclosed
colonnades, porches and balconies; mechanical and electrical spaces; trash rooms; and storage spaces without
windows and enclosed by surfaces that allow for natural ventilation or outside air circulation. The floor area shall be
measured from the outside face of exterior walls.
12. More than 50 percent of the first floor of mixed-use buildings shall be used for nonresidential uses.
(Code 1979, § 33-63; Ord. No. 4449-13, § 9, 3-19-2013)

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 1

Cross reference— Businesses and business regulations, ch. 22.

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 2

