Sec. 94-230. - Coleman Park Historic District neighborhood commercial (CP-H NC)
development characteristics and sub-district requirements.
a. Intent. The intent of the district is to preserve the existing scale and character of the historically significant
commercial structures within the Northwest Historic District and to encourage compatibility for new commercial
buildings developed within the historic district. Because the properties in this district have historic designation,
redevelopment in existing structures would be confined to interior build-outs necessary for the change in occupancy
demanded by the newly established commercial use. Changes to the exterior of any structure or additions will
require prior approval from the city's historic preservation division.
b. Building height. Building height shall not exceed 30 feet, including all habitable and mechanical space.
c. Building placement.
1. Minimum lot area: 5,000 square feet.
2. Maximum lot area: 10,000 square feet.
3. Building separation: zero feet or not less than ten feet.
4. Minimum lot width: 50 feet.
5. Maximum density and FAR: 32 du/acre and 1.5 FAR
6. Minimum setbacks:
a. Front: 10 feet.
b. Corner: 5 feet.
c. Side: 5 feet, or 15 feet when abutting a residence.
d. Rear: 15 feet.
d. Maximum lot coverage by buildings: 60 percent.
e. Maximum lot coverage by impermeable surface: 85 percent.
f. Minimum required open space and landscape areas.
a. Minimum required open space area: 40 percent
b. Minimum required landscape area: 15 percent
g. Parking. All parking shall be placed behind the building whenever possible. Commercial uses shall provide at least
one standard parking space per 1,000 square feet. On-street parking adjacent to the property may be counted
toward the required parking.
h. Building uses. Uses permitted within this district are provided in the schedule of permitted uses under neighborhood
commercial (NC) zoning district in table 1-IX of ARTICLE IX of this chapter, unless prohibited by this section or
section 94-228(i). Drive-thru facilities are only permitted on parcels that are a minimum of one acre in size. No drive
aisles and/or parking stalls are permitted between Tamarind Avenue and Palm Beach Lakes Boulevard and the
perimeter landscape buffer.
i. Prohibited uses. The following uses shall be prohibited within the CP-H NC district: check cashing stores as a
principal use, convenience stores, game arcades, hotels and motels, motor vehicle fuel sales and service, motor
vehicle repair, motor vehicle sales and rental, motor vehicle sales and service agencies, indoor recreation facilities,
outdoor recreation facilities, and taxidermists.
(Ord. No. 4402-12, ยง 2, 9-18-2012)

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 1

