Sec. 94-206. - Planned community (PC) district.
a. General requirements.
1. Unified control and future development. Unified control, development within the terms of the officially adopted
master development plan, and provision of necessary sureties and binding successors in title shall be
required pursuant to subsection 94-207(b)(8).
2. Master development plan. A master development plan, prepared pursuant to subsection 94-207(b)(9);
however, schematic architectural drawings of future structures shall not be required. In addition, all of the
following information will be provided in the master development plan:
a. The location of existing public facilities, including parks, schools, fire stations and similar facilities, within
and adjacent to property proposed for the planned community designation.
b. A pedestrian and vehicular circulation plan, including proposed locations, widths, and paving of all
major internal rights-of-way and pedestrian paths. This plan also shall include the proposed traffic
circulation flow, and street names and numbering system, and proposed mass transit facilities.
c. A general plan indicating proposed land uses within the planned community district. This shall include
the location and intensity of residential areas; the location and intensity of commercial areas; the
location and extent of proposed community serving open space and recreation facilities, including golf
courses, passive and active parks, clubhouses, swimming pools, play courts and similar amenities; and
the location of proposed community service uses including public safety facilities.
d. A general plan to indicate the manner in which public and private utility service systems are to be
provided, including potable water, sanitary sewer, trash and garbage disposal, storm drainage, electric
power, natural gas, and telephone and cable television.
3. Supporting information. The master development plan will be accompanied by supporting information as
required in subsection 94-207(b)(10).
4. Professional services. The master development plan shall be prepared by professionals possessing the
qualifications required by subsection 94-207(b)(11).
b. Specific development standards. All planned community districts shall comply with the specific development
standards of this section.
1. Common open space. Common open space shall be maintained as provided in subsection 94-207(b)(9)c.
2. Dedication of public facilities. Public facilities shall be designated, preserved or improved as provided in
subsection 94-207(b)(3).
3. Consistency with city comprehensive plan. Planned community districts shall be consistent with all
comprehensive planning development goals and objectives of the city comprehensive plan.
4. Utilities. All public and private utilities, including cable television, and electrical service systems shall be
installed underground pursuant to section 94-142. Facilities exempted from these requirements in subsection
94-207(b)(5) may be exempt in planned community districts.
5. Site characteristics. All sites in the proposed planned community development designations shall possess the
characteristics described in subsection 94-207(b)(9).
6. Permitted uses. With a planned community development district, all uses permitted in all districts, excluding
city center districts, shall be allowed. However, upon an affirmative recommendation of the planning board,
the city commission may allow additional uses within a planned community district.
7. Minimum area required. The minimum area required for a planned community district shall be 500 acres.
However, an area of lesser size may be approved for a planned community zoning upon findings by the
planning board and the city commission that one or more of the following conditions exist:
a. Particular circumstances justify such reduction;
b. Requirements for planned community zoning and the benefits to be derived from such zoning can be
derived in such a reduced area;
c. Permitting such lesser area for the zoning is in conformity with the planning and development objectives
of the city. In no event however, shall a planned community district be less than 100 acres.

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 1

8. Maximum residential densities permitted. The overall residential density permitted by an adopted master
development plan shall not exceed ten dwelling units per acre of the total area within a planned community
district. A designated residential component within a planned community district shall not have a density
greater than 36 dwelling units per acre.
9. Residential density mixture. Every planned community district approved pursuant to the revisions of this
section shall be required to accommodate at least four different levels of residential densities. The four
required levels are hereby established as:
a. Low density: No more than five dwelling units per gross acre of residential use.
b. Medium density: No more than ten dwelling units per gross acre of residential use.
c. Moderate density: No more than 17.5 dwelling units per gross acre of residential use.
d. High density: No more than 36 dwelling units per gross acre of residential use.
10. Use proportions and limitations. Each planned development district shall provide uses in the following
proportions:
a. Open space uses (community-serving) comprise at least 20 percent of the total area of the planned
community district.
b. Low density residential uses shall comprise at least 20 percent of the total area of the planned
community district.
c. Medium density residential uses shall comprise at least 20 percent of the total area of the planned
community district.
d. Moderate density residential uses shall comprise at least 20 percent of the total area of the planned
community district.
e. High density residential uses shall comprise not more than 20 percent of the total area of the planned
community district.
f. Commercial uses shall comprise not less than two percent and not more than eight percent of the total
area of the planned community district. Commercial areas shall not be included in the gross dwelling
units per acre calculations.
11. Average residential dwelling unit size. The average floor area required per dwelling unit for various residential
components of a planned community district shall be as follows:
DENSITY
RANGE

AVERAGE DWELLING UNIT SIZE
(Square Feet)

Low
Medium
Moderate
High

1,200
1,000
750
750

In any residential component within a planned community district, all residential dwelling units shall be at least
500 square feet in size.

12. Residential components defined. Each residential component within a planned community district shall be
considered a planned residential development subject to all the provisions of subsection 94-207(c).
13. Commercial components defined. Each commercial component within a planned community district shall be
considered a planned commercial development subject to all provisions of subsection 94-207(d).
14. Parking and loading space requirements. Parking and loading spaces for all uses within a planned community
shall be provided pursuant to ARTICLE XV of this chapter.
15. Landscaping. Landscaping, tree protection, screening and buffering shall be provided pursuant to ARTICLE
XIV of this chapter. However, additional landscaping, screening, and buffering may be required to provide
greater privacy and protection for residents within a planned community and adjacent property owners.
16. Signs. Signs shall be provided pursuant to ARTICLE XIII of this chapter.

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 2

17. Internal and external relationships.
a. External relationships. Planning within a planned community district shall alleviate adverse or potentially
adverse surrounding or nearby influences, and protect surrounding areas from adverse or potentially
adverse influences generated by or within the district. Vehicular access to the proposed development
shall be indicated and, to the extent possible, shall conform with existing or proposed city or county
road systems.
b. Internal relationships. The planned community master development plan shall demonstrate a pedestrian
and traffic circulation system that provides safe, convenient access to dwelling units and other facilities.
The plan also shall demonstrate the variety of housing types available, and the relationship of housing
to recreational facilities and open space. The master development plan should also demonstrate how
minimum land areas are to be used for roads and access; how traffic within and through the
development will be controlled; and that the proposed development will not be fragmented into small
areas with inefficient use of land area.
18. Natural resource protection. The development plan shall comply with all relevant portions of ARTICLE XII of
this chapter regarding natural resource protection.
19. Flood prevention and control. The development plan shall comply with all relevant portions of ARTICLE XVII
of this chapter regarding flood prevention and control.
c. Effect of planned community zoning. If the city commission approves a proposed planned community rezoning, in
accordance with the provisions of this section, the master development plan and all other information and materials
formally submitted with the petition shall be adopted as an amendment to this chapter.
1. Issuance of permits. Building permits for an approved or amended planned community may be issued to
allow construction of public and approved private roads, utilities, community-serving open space, recreational
facilities without residential uses, government structures, and similar uses. All construction shall be in
compliance with the following:
a. Be consistent with an approved planned community master development plan.
b. Conforms with all applicable city building codes and ordinances.
c. Have had accepted by the city all construction sureties or bonds.
2. Planned development approval. Excluding those building permits which may be issued pursuant to
subsection (b)(17)a of this section, residential or commercial building permits shall not be issued for any land
within a planned community district until a master plan for residential or commercial planned development
district has been approved pursuant to subsection 94-207(b)(1) of this Code.
d. Planned community district application process. An application to establish a planned community district shall be
submitted, reviewed, and considered pursuant to section 94-41.
(Code 1979, ยง 33-85)

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 3

