Sec. 94-577. - Mandatory and optional review of development orders.
a. General. It is the policy of the city that no final development orders shall be issued unless adequate public facilities
are available to serve the project which is the subject of the final development order. In order to ensure that
adequate public facilities are available concurrent with the impacts of development on each public facility, the
procedures of this section shall govern the issuance of development orders.
b. Exemptions. The following types of development shall be exempt from the requirements of this article, but only to
the extent stated in an applicable certificate of exemption:
1. Any developer who has submitted to the city a complete application for a final development order prior to
February 1, 1990, and the application and/or project has continued in good faith;
2. An alteration to a project which is the subject of a development order which does not create any additional
impacts on public facilities;
3. The construction of accessory buildings or structures which do not create additional impacts on public
facilities;
4. The replacement of (i) an existing dwelling unit when no additional dwelling units are created, or (ii) an
existing nonresidential structure when the type of use is unchanged and no additional square footage is
added; and
5. A single-family residential unit or a duplex, to be constructed on a legal platted lot of record existing prior to
February 1, 1990.
c. Issuance of certificate of exemption. Upon application by an owner of a project which is exempt pursuant to the
terms of this section, the planning department shall issue a certificate of exemption, using the procedures described
in this section.
d. Mandatory certification of final development orders. All applicants for final development orders shall submit with
such application either a certificate of exemption, a certificate of concurrency reservation, or a conditional certificate
of concurrency reservation.
e. Preliminary development orders ineligible for certification.
1. Generally. Preliminary development orders do not directly authorize development to commence or are so
conceptual that they do not allow an accurate assessment of a project's impact on public facilities. Preliminary
development orders require subsequent final development orders which are subject to concurrency review.
Therefore, preliminary development orders are not required to be reviewed for concurrency and may not
apply for or receive a certificate of exemption, a certificate of concurrency reservation, or a conditional
certificate of concurrency reservation. A concurrency determination may be requested in conjunction with
preliminary development orders as described in subsection (e)(2) of this section.
2. Requirements for preliminary development orders. The following requirements are imposed on preliminary
development orders:
a. All applicants for preliminary development orders must submit with the application for the preliminary
development order a signed affidavit acknowledging the eventual requirement for a certificate of
exemption, a certificate of concurrency reservation, or a conditional certificate of concurrency
reservation.
b. Staff shall include as part of all preliminary development orders a condition that the issuance of any
subsequent final development order is contingent upon the applicant obtaining a certificate of
exemption, a certificate of concurrency reservation, or a conditional certificate of concurrency
reservation.
f. Succession. If a final development order requires subsequent development orders, e.g., site plan approval followed
by one or more building permits, the original certificate of concurrency reservation or the original conditional
certificate of concurrency reservation shall serve all such subsequent development orders, provided that there has
been no expiration of the original development order.
g. Optional review of projects. Any person may request a concurrency determination at any time subject to the
payment of an appropriate fee. A concurrency determination is simply a quick determination by city staff as to

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 1

whether capacity for a particular project appears to exist. It reserves no capacity and is in no way binding upon the
city.
(Code 1979, ยง 33-246)

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 2

