Sec. 94-579. - Level of service standards.
The following level of service standards shall be used to determine whether concurrency exists:
1. Roads.
a. Noncity roads. The county road ordinances impose certain level of service requirements of the county on
certain developments within the city. If an application for a concurrency determination, a certificate of
concurrency reservation, or a conditional certificate of concurrency reservation includes a project which is
subject to the county road ordinances, the applicant must submit with such application written documentation
from the county engineering department evidencing that the project shall be in full compliance with the
requirements of the county road ordinances, and, if an application is for other than a concurrency
determination, such compliance shall exist for the entire life of the requested certificate and all possible
development orders flowing therefrom.
b. City roads LOS.
1. The city thoroughfare roads, as identified in the comprehensive plan, shall operate at the adopted level
of service "E" as defined in the state department of transportation Generalized Daily Level of Service
Table. The comprehensive plan states that the city will satisfy concurrency requirements for roads by
complying with the county road ordinances, which supersede the city traffic performance standards for
county thoroughfares.
2. The county road ordinances provide for a concurrency determination by the county engineering
department if a proposed project will generate more than 1,000 vehicle trips per day, as determined by
a professional traffic engineer. A traffic study may be required by the county engineering department if
the number of trips approaches the 1,000 trip per day threshold. In the event that a proposed project will
generate 1,000 or fewer vehicle trips per day, the planning department will maintain a cumulative total
of all trips and will transmit this information to the county engineering department on a regular basis.
The city shall monitor traffic counts on city urban collectors. Through this procedure, the level of service
standard adopted in the comprehensive plan shall be maintained on city roads for both small and large
projects.
2. Sanitary sewer. Sanitary sewer facilities shall operate at the following LOS:
DISTRICTS

SEWER LEVEL OF SERVICE

Single-family
Multifamily
Commercial
Industrial
Hotel

350 gallons per day/dwelling unit
250 gallons per day/dwelling unit
0.20 gallons per day/square feet
0.15 gallons per day/square feet
100 gallons per day/room

PEAKING FACTOR

AVG DAILY FLOW (MGD)

3.5
3.0
2.5
2.0

0.01 to 0.05
0.05 to 0.25
0.25 to 2.00
;gt; 2.0

3. Solid waste. The solid waste facilities serving the city shall operate at the following LOS standards:
Collection. The city shall adhere to the franchise agreement with the solid waste authority by providing a minimum
level of service for residential garbage collection of twice per week, bulk trash collection of once per week,
vegetation collection of once per week, and recyclable collection of once per week.

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 1

Disposal. The city shall ensure delivery of solid waste material collected to the Solid Waste Authority (SWA) north
county landfill and shall continue to seek annual certification from the SWA that it has sufficient disposal capacity to
accommodate the solid waste generated for both the five-year and ten-year planning periods. The SWA certification
letter shall constitute compliance with the city's solid waste LOS standard.
4. Drainage. Drainage facilities shall operate at the following LOS standards:
DRAINAGE TYPE
Storm sewer systems
Canal systems

LEVEL OF SERVICE
3-year, 1-hour storm
25-year, 24-hour storm

5. Potable water. Average annual water consumption rate:
MUNICIPALITY
West Palm Beach Service Area

AVERAGE ANNUAL WATER CONSUMPTION RATE (GPPD)
269

6. Parks and recreation. Parks and recreation facilities shall operate at the following LOS standards:
PARK FACILITIES
Community Parks
Regional Parks

POLICY LOS
2.5 acres/1,000 persons
1.5 acres/1,000 persons

(Code 1979, ยง 33-248; Ord. No. 4449-13, ยง 26, 3-19-2013)

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 2

