Sec. 94-578. - Procedures.
a. Rules of general applicability.
1. Timing. An application for a concurrency determination, a certificate of exemption, a certificate of concurrency
reservation, or a conditional certificate of concurrency reservation may be submitted at any time during the
year.
2. Assignability and transferability. A certificate of concurrency exemption, a certificate of concurrency
reservation, or a conditional certificate of concurrency reservation shall run with the land, but shall not be
assignable to any other project.
3. Expiration and effect. A certificate of exemption, a certificate of concurrency reservation, or a conditional
certificate of concurrency reservation is initially valid for one year during which time an application for a final
development order must be applied for as to the project for which the certificate was approved. If a final
development order is approved for a project for which a certificate of exemption, a certificate of concurrency
reservation, or a certificate of concurrency reservation was issued, the applicable certificate is valid for the life
of the final development order for which such certificate is approved.
b. Procedures for determination of exemption or capacity.
1. Submission of application. An application for either a concurrency determination, a certificate of exemption, a
certificate of concurrency reservation, or a conditional certificate of concurrency reservation shall be
submitted to the planning department, on such form as is promulgated by the department. The planning
department shall charge a reasonable fee to cover the processing of the application. The application shall
consist of such information as required by the planning department.
2. Determination of completeness and review. After receipt of an application, the planning department shall
determine whether it is complete within 14 days after its submission. If it is determined that the application is
not complete, written notice shall be forwarded to the applicant specifying the deficiencies. The planning
department shall take no further action on the application unless the deficiencies are remedied.
3. Limitation of approvals. A concurrency determination, a certificate of exemption, a certificate of concurrency
reservation and a conditional certificate of concurrency reservation shall apply only to the specific land uses,
densities, and intensities based on information provided in the application, and where applicable, the final
development order. All applicants, to the extent required by the planning department, shall submit such
applications for entire projects, rather than portions of projects. An applicant may not reserve more capacity
than that reasonably required for a project which the applicant desires in good faith to proceed with promptly.
4. Issuance of certification. Within 45 days after receipt of a complete application, the planning department shall
either conclude that the application is approved or denied. If denied, the denial shall be in writing and shall
include the reasons for denial. If a certificate of concurrency reservation is approved, the approval shall
require the payment of a fee for reserving capacity, which fee must be paid within ten days of the issuance of
such certificate, or the certificate shall be canceled. If a conditional certificate of concurrency reservation is
approved, the approval shall require the payment of a fee for reserving capacity, which fee must be paid
within ten days of the city commission's approval of the development agreement submitted with the
application for such certificate, or the certificate shall be canceled. In either case, the final development order
for which a certificate is obtained shall not be issued until the capacity reservation fee is paid. Public facility
capacity shall be granted on a first-come, first-serve basis, determined as of the date and time a certificate of
concurrency reservation or a conditional certificate of concurrency reservation is issued.
5. Appeals.
a. An applicant may appeal any final decision issued pursuant to this article by the planning department by
filing a written appeal with the city's zoning board of appeals within 20 days after such decision. The
city's zoning board of appeals shall hear such appeal at a public hearing with reasonable notice to the
appellant and shall issue its opinion within a reasonable time after such hearing.
b. The zoning board of appeals' decision shall be final for the purpose of administrative appeals, and an
applicant may thereafter appeal the zoning board of appeals' decision to the circuit court having
jurisdiction over the city.

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 1

c. All appellate decisions shall be based upon the criteria and standards contained in this article.
(Code 1979, ยง 33-247)

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 2

