Sec. 94-441. - Intent, application, exemptions and conflicts, Florida friendly landscape
principles.
a. Intent. The intent of the landscaping and tree protection requirements of this article is:
1. To establish standards to protect and to enhance community appearance by the installation of appropriate
landscaping and screening materials within the city;
2. To promote the conservation of water by encouraging the preservation of native plant communities and
ecosystems, the use of site specific plant materials, the utilization of Florida friendly landscape principles;
3. To maintain permeable land areas essential to surface water management and aquifer recharge;
4. To protect and expand the community wide tree canopy;
5. To maintain and increase the value of land by incorporating a minimum amount of landscaping into
development;
6. To establish parameters for the use of artificial turf;
7. To eradicate or control certain exotic and invasive plant species which have become nuisances because of
their tendency to damage public and private works, have a negative effect upon public health, or disrupt and
destroy native ecosystems;
8. To encourage prudent and skilled workmanship for the installation and maintenance of all plant materials;
9. To promote energy conservation through design placement of trees and shrubs, achieving cooling through
the provision of shade, thereby helping to offset global warming and local heat island effects,
10. To establish procedures and standards for the administration and enforcement of this article.
b. Application. The landscaping, tree protection, and screening requirements of this section shall apply to all
development within the city, except those developments exempted in subsection (c) of this section regarding
exemptions.
c. Exemptions. The following development shall be exempt from the standards of this article:
1. Buildings or structures accessory to single-family or duplex development.
2. Renovations, repair, alteration or redevelopment which does not exceed 50 percent of the value of the
structure.
3. Tee, fairway, putting green and other natural or manmade landscape features of a golf course development.
The clubhouse, vehicular use areas and other nongreen areas however, shall conform to the requirements of
this article.
4. Developments only when specifically noted by this chapter.
d. Florida friendly landscaping. Florida friendly landscaping is considered to be implementation of the following
principles, which are described in more detail in the Florida Yards and Neighborhood Handbook , developed by the
University of Florida, IFAS Extension Services and the Florida Department of Environmental Protection:
1. The right plant in the right place by selecting plants that match the sites soil, light, water and climate
conditions, with an aim for a diversity of trees, shrubs, groundcover and flowers, and plants that welcome
wildlife.
2. More efficient irrigation by grouping plants with similar watering needs together and zoning the irrigation
system accordingly.
3. Fertilize in compliance with the requirements of this Code at chapter 34, article V, Florida friendly fertilizer
use.
4. Maintain landscape beds well mulched with at least two inches of space around tree trunks to prevent rot,
using sustainably harvested mulch, such as melaleuca, pine straw or eucalyptus.
5. Attract wildlife by selecting plants with seeds, fruit, foliage, flowers or berries that animals can eat; increasing
vertical layering of vegetation; and reducing insecticide use.
6. Utilize integrated pest management principles by selecting pest-resistant plants, spot treating pests with
selective spectrum pesticide applied in accordance with label instructions.

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 1

7. Compost and re-cycle yard waste and debris.
8. Retain rainfall and irrigation with shallow rain gardens or swales; direct downspouts toward garden area and
utilize permeable material for walkways, driveways and patios.
9. Protect water bodies by not mowing or utilizing pesticides within ten feet of a water body.
e. Conflicts. If the provisions of this article conflict with other ordinances, regulations or sections of this chapter, the
more stringent limitation or requirement shall govern or prevail to the extent of the conflict.
(Code 1979, § 33-160; Ord. No. 4420-12, § 3, 6-11-2012; Ord. No. 4433-12, § 2, 9-18-2012; Ord. No. 4449-13, § 25, 319-2013; Ord. No. 4689-17, § 1, 4-11-2017; Ord. No. 4756-17, § 1, 1-12-2018)

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 2

