Sec. 94-442. - Open space landscape requirements.
a. Intent. The intent of this section is to provide standards for landscaping open space areas when required by this
chapter.
b. Landscape plans .
1. Landscape plans, excluding those prepared for single-family dwelling units, shall be prepared by persons as
authorized by F.S. ch. 481, pt. II (landscape architecture).
2. Landscape plan requirements. When required, a landscape plan shall contain the following:
a. Date, north arrow, and graphic scale.
b. The location of all existing or proposed structures, improvements, and uses.
c. The location of property lines, existing or proposed setback.
d. The location of existing or proposed underground or overhead utility services.
e. Location of all proposed trees, shrubs, ground covers, and other landscape materials.
f. The common and botanical name, size, and location of all trees and vegetation on the site. A table
showing the size and quantity of all proposed landscape materials. A key which identifies all landscape
materials shown on the plan.
g. Tabulation clearly displaying the relevant statistical information necessary for the evaluation of
compliance with the provisions of this article. This includes gross acreage or square footage, gross
open space, square footage of preservation areas, square footage of paved and landscaped areas, and
such other information as the city deems appropriate.
h. Phasing of the site including any temporary landscaping.
i. Location and width of any proposed dedication of property for public rights-of-way.
j. Location and screening of all garbage receptacles.
k. Location, dimensions and screening of all proposed satellite dishes and ground mounted mechanical
and utility equipment.
l. Delineation of the existing and proposed parking spaces, or other vehicular use areas, access aisles,
driveways, terminal islands, interior islands, divider medians and similar features.
m. Delineation of irrigation coverage, sensors location and high, medium and low zones of water usage if
taking credit for these items in Florida friendly landscaping section; and details of the cross section of
root ball and staking detail.
n. Statement that all landscaped areas, excluding those areas with native noninvasive plants, will be
provided with permanent, automatic irrigation.
o. A tabulation clearly displaying each technique and method proposed to satisfy the Florida friendly
landscape point system requirement and its accompanying point allocation.
p. Nature of adjacent land uses.
q. Existing landscaping on adjacent properties within ten feet of the property line.
r. Information on protection of existing trees, relocation and removal of existing trees, and mitigation
proposed.
c. General standards. All open space, as required by this chapter, shall be landscaped as provided in this section.
1. Landscaping generally. All open space, excluding vehicular and pedestrian circulation features and surface
parking, shall be covered with natural grass, ground cover, shrubbery, or other suitable plant material, or may
have paved active recreation areas, patios, terraces, pedestrian circulation areas, swimming pools, water
features, and similar site components incorporated in the open space designs. Artificial turf shall only be
permitted and installed in accordance with the standards of section 94-451.
2. General landscaping standards for single-family dwelling units and all other developments. General
landscaping standards for single-family dwelling units and all other developments shall be as follows:

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 1

d.

e.

f.
g.

a. Single-family dwelling units. For single-family and duplex dwelling units, at least one shade or flowering
tree shall be planted for each 1,000 square feet of open space or portion thereof. At least one shrub
shall be planted for each 500 square feet of open space or portion thereof. Front yards shall be
landscaped to meet the requirements of section 94-482(a).
b. All other developments. The general landscaping standards for all other developments shall be as
follows:
1. Trees. At least one shade tree shall be planted for each 1,500 square feet of required open space
or portion thereof. At least one flowering tree shall be planted for each 6,000 square feet of
required open space or portion thereof. Required trees may be planted at uniform intervals, at
random, or in groupings. The calculation of trees for this provision may include those required for
buffering, screening, or to improve aesthetics within the site.
2. Shrubs. At least one shrub shall be planted for each 500 square feet of required open space or
portion thereof.
3. Natural grass. Grass areas shall not exceed 60 percent of the required landscape area.
3. Amount of plant material required. The total open space area required shall determine the number of trees
and shrubs to be planted. Required open space is established by each zoning district's regulations set forth in
this Code. The total amount of plant material required shall not be affected by that portion of the open space
area devoted to active recreation purposes, patios, terraces, pedestrian circulation, and similar amenities.
Substitution of palm trees. Palm trees may be substituted for not more than 35 percent of the shade or flowering
trees required by this article. However, when palm trees are substituted for shade trees, three palm trees shall be
provided for each required shade tree. This 3:1 substitution shall not be required for Royal Palm Trees (Roystonea
spp.), Senegal Date Palm (Phoenix reclinata), Medjool Date Palm (Phoenix dactylifera), Bismarck Palm (Bismarckia
nobilis), and Silver Date Palm (Phoenix sylvestris).
Landscaping of public rights-of-way. Public rights-of-way between street or sidewalk surfaces or private areas that
serve as an extension of public space shall be planted with groundcover approved by the city or natural grass per
the requirements of section 94-445(4)(c). Grass areas shall be sodded. The planting of trees and shrubs within
public rights-of-way is subject to the approval of the city.
Clear vision requirements. Landscaping shall be installed in accordance with the clear vision requirements of
subsection 94-305(e).
Florida-friendly landscape requirements. All new developments except for those exempt pursuant to subsection 94441(c) shall be required to apply certain Florida-friendly landscape techniques for landscaping prior to receiving a
certificate of occupancy. The adopted design options and the accompanying points used to meet the Floridafriendly landscape requirements shall be clearly tabulated on the landscape plan. Such a landscape plan must
satisfy a minimum total of 25 points for a single-family dwelling unit and a minimum of 50 points for all other
developments from the following list of options. Plants may only be counted once for credit toward drought tolerant
or Florida native plant points.
DESIGN OPTIONS:

(1)
(2)
(3)

(4)

Utilization of moisture sensing controller other than rainswitch, alternate source of water such as a
cistern, or highly efficient system that promotes water conservation.
Plan submitted with low, moderate, and high water usage zones indicated.
Groundcover or Grass:
25—50 percent of the groundcover or grass areas are made up of natural drought tolerant
a.
species from the list*
51 percent or more of the groundcover or grass areas are made up of natural drought tolerant
b.
grass species from the list*
25—50 percent of the groundcover or grass areas are made up of Florida native plants.
c.
51 percent or more of the groundcover or grass areas are made up of Florida native plants.
d.
Shrubs:
25—50 percent of the required shrubs are made up of natural drought tolerant species from the
a.
list*
51 percent or more of the required shrubs are made up of natural drought tolerant species from
b.
the list*

Zoning and Land Development Code

POINTS
10
5
5
10
10
15
5
10

Page 2

c.
(5)

(6)

(7)
(8)

25—50 percent of the required shrubs are made up of Florida native plants.

10

51 percent or more of the required shrubs are made up of Florida native plants.
d.
Trees:
25—50 percent of the required trees are made up of natural drought tolerant species from the
a.
list*
51 percent or more of the required trees are made up of natural drought tolerant species from
b.
the list*
25—50 percent of the required trees are made up of Florida native plants.
c.

15

51 percent or more of the required trees are made up of Florida native plants.
d.
Extra shade trees in vehicular use areas:
25 percent more than the required shade trees planted in the vehicular use areas.
a.

15

50 percent more than the required shade trees planted in the vehicular use areas.
b.
Natural sod area less than 50 percent of provided landscape area.
Utilization of compacted mulched planting beds at least three inches in depth in all planted areas except
ground covers.

10
10

5
10
10

5

5

NOTES:
*The list of drought tolerant natural grass, shrubs, and tree species is contained in Waterwise, the South Florida Water Management District plant
and landscape practices guide, as may be amended. Additional low water use plant species may be accepted with verified documentation. These
species should however, not include invasive species. A listing of these drought tolerant species may also be obtained from the planning
department.

(Code 1979, § 33-161; Ord. No. 4066-07, § 3, 10-22-2007; Ord. No. 4420-12, § 3, 6-11-2012; Ord. No. 4433-12, § 2, 918-2012; Ord. No. 4689-16, § 2, 4-11-2017; Ord. No. 4756-17, § 2, 2-12-2018)

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 3

