Sec. 94-342. - General design standards.
a. Relation to adjoining street system. The arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall make provision for the
continuation of the principal existing streets in adjoining areas (or their proper projection where adjoining land is not
subdivided) insofar as they may be deemed necessary by the board for public requirements. The width of such
streets in new subdivisions shall be not less than the minimum widths established in this article. The street and alley
arrangement shall be such as not to cause a hardship to owners of adjoining property when they plat their own land
and seek to provide for convenient access to it. Off-set streets should be avoided. The angle of intersection
between streets should not vary by more than ten degrees from a right angle. Streets obviously in alignment with
existing streets shall bear the names of the existing streets. All proposed street names shall be checked against
duplication of other street names.
b. Street and alley width.
1. As a minimum requirement for streets, avenues and sidewalks, the plat shall dedicate a width of at least 50
feet, at least five feet thereof on each side for sidewalks, and at least 40 feet intervening between sidewalks;
provided, that in the event that the city commission, upon recommendation by the city planning board, finds
that traffic conditions and transportation requirements so demand, a greater width may be required; and
except that, dead-end streets not exceeding 1,000 feet in length and termination in a turnaround with a
minimum radius of 50 feet may have a minimum width of 40 feet.
2. When streets parallel and adjoin unsubdivided property, a half street, at least 25 feet in width, may be
dedicated, and whenever subdivision property adjoins a half street, the remainder of the street shall be
dedicated.
3. Alleys are not recommended in single-family and two-family residential districts; and when provided a
minimum width of 20 feet shall be required. Alleys are required in the rear of all business lots and shall be at
least 20 feet wide. A five-foot cut-off shall be made at all acute angle intersections.
c. Easements. Easements of at least five feet in width shall be provided on each side of all rear lot lines and along
side lot lines, where necessary, for poles, wires, conduits, storm and sanitary sewers, gas, water or other mains.
Easements of greater width may be required along or across lots where necessary for the extension of main sewers
or other utilities or where both water and sewer lines are located in the same easement.
d. Blocks.
1. No block shall be longer than 1,200 feet. Where blocks are over 1,000 feet in length, a crosswalk at least ten
feet in width may be required near the center of the block.
2. In platting residential lots containing less than 15,000 square feet, the depth of the block should not exceed
300 feet.
3. Where a tract of land is of such size or location as to prevent a lot arrangement directly related to normal
street design, there may be established one or more courts, dead-end streets or other arrangements;
provided that, proper access shall be given to all lots from a dedicated street or court. A dead-end street shall
terminate in an open space (preferably circular) having a minimum radius of 50 feet. A dead-end street shall
not exceed 1,000 feet in length.
e. Lots.
1. The lot arrangement and design shall be such that all lots will provide satisfactory and desirable building
sites, properly related to topography and the character of surrounding development.
2. All side lines of lots shall be at right angles to straight street lines and radial to curved street lines, except
where a variation to this rule will provide a better street and lot layout. Lots with double frontage shall be
avoided.
3. No lot shall have an area or width less than that required by any zoning ordinance. In an unzoned area, no lot
shall have an average width of less than 60 feet, nor shall it contain less than 7,500 square feet.
4. Where corner lots back upon lots facing the side street, the corner lots shall have extra width sufficient to
permit the establishment of front building lines on both the front and side of the lots adjoining the streets.
f. Building lines. Where the subdivided area is not under zoning control, the subdivider shall establish building lines in
accordance with the needs of each development, but in no case shall such building lines be less than 30 feet from

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 1

g.

h.

i.

j.

k.

the right-of-way of the street or highway upon which the lot fronts. Restrictions requiring buildings to be set back to
such building lines shall be shown on the plat. Except where zoning regulations apply, restrictions shall also be
made and shown on or referred to on that plat requiring all residential buildings to be set at least six feet off each
side lot line and not less than 30 feet from rear lot lines.
Character of development. The subdivider shall confer with the board regarding the type and character of
development that will be permitted in the subdivision and may agree to place certain minimum restrictions upon the
property to prevent the construction of substandard buildings, control the type of structures or the use of the lots
which, unless so controlled, would clearly depreciate the character and value of the proposed subdivision and of
adjoining property. Deed restrictions or covenants running with the land may be included to provide for the creation
of a property owner's association or board of trustees for the proper protection and maintenance of the development
in the future; provided that, such deed restriction or covenants shall not contain reversionary clauses wherein any
lot shall return to the subdivider because of a violation thereof of the terms of the restrictions or covenants. Where
the subdivision contains sewers, sewage treatment plants, water supply systems, park area, street trees or other
physical facilities necessary or desirable for the welfare of the area and which are of common use or benefit and
which the city or county does not desire to maintain, provision shall be made by trust agreement as part of the deed
restrictions, acceptable to the city or county for the proper and continuous maintenance and supervision of such
facilities by the lot owners in the subdivision.
Parks, schools sites, etc. In subdividing property, consideration shall be given to suitable sites for schools, parks,
playgrounds and other common area for public use so as to conform to any recommendations of the currently
effective city plan. Any provision for schools, parks and playgrounds should be indicated on the preliminary plan in
order that it may be determined when and in what manner such areas will be provided or acquired by the
appropriate public agency.
Easements along streams or canals. Whenever any stream or important surface drainage course is located in an
area which is being subdivided, the subdivider shall provide or dedicate an adequate easement along each side of
the stream for the purpose of widening, deepening, sloping, improving or protecting the stream or for drainage,
parkway or recreational use.
Minimum radius for property lines of corner lots. The property lines of all corner lots at the intersecting street lines of
all subdivisions of property hereafter submitted shall have a minimum radius as follows:
1. Residential areas, 15 feet.
2. Business and commercial areas, ten feet.
3. Streets intersecting main arterial boulevards:
a. In residential areas, 20 feet.
b. In business and commercial areas, ten feet.
Other design standards. Subsection 94-44(e) should be referred to for other design standards associated with
minimum subdivision improvements.

(Code 1979, ยง 33-131)

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 2

