Sec. 94-220. - BMUD building type I (south of 39th Street).
BMUD BUILDING TYPE I
(SOUTH OF 39TH STREET)

Type I
OC=Office Commercial
See Table IX (Permitted use table)
a. Building height. The height of buildings shall be measured in stories as follows:
1. Principal buildings located at primary intersections shall be a minimum of two stories above grade.
2. Principal buildings shall not exceed three stories above grade. Accessory structures shall not exceed two
stories in height.
3. Newly constructed stories at the sidewalk level shall be no less than ten feet in height from finished floor to
finished ceiling and shall not exceed 16 feet in height from finished floor to finished floor. Mezzanines that
exceed the permissible percentage of floor area for a mezzanine as defined in the city's building code shall be
counted as a story.
4. Stories above the first story shall be no more than 14 feet from finished floor to finished floor. Any
mezzanines above the first story shall be counted as a story, notwithstanding the percentage of floor area for
a mezzanine defined in the city's building code.
5. Decorative elements, such as nonhabitable towers, may exceed the allowable height by up to one story
(measured by the average height of the habitable stories in the building) with a floor area not to exceed 400
square feet.
6. Parking garages shall be measured in levels as follows:
a. Each parking garage level at the frontage line(s) shall equal one story for the purposes of measuring
building height.
b. Parking garages that are fully concealed by a habitable story and use for a minimum depth of 20 feet
from the frontage line(s) are not restricted in the number of levels, provided that the overall height of the
garage does not exceed the overall height of the habitable stories at the frontage line.
b. Building placement. Buildings and their elements shall be placed on their lots as follows:
1. Buildings at primary intersections shall be built along a minimum of 80 percent of the Broadway frontage line
with a setback of no greater than five feet. A streetwall shall be built along the remaining frontage. The
frontage line shall adhere to the corner visibility triangle requirements established in subsection 94-305(e),
visibility at intersections.
2. Exclusive of primary intersections, the facades of the principal building shall be built along a minimum of 65
percent of the Broadway frontage line with a setback of no greater than 15 feet. The frontage line shall
adhere to the corner visibility triangle requirements established in subsection 94-305(e), visibility at
intersections.

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 1

3. Windows and doors facing interior side lot lines shall be set back to accommodate the full building separation
required by the building code.
4. Rear setbacks for principal buildings shall be a minimum of 15 feet from the rear property line. Accessory
garage apartments shall be set back a minimum of 15 feet from the centerline of alley. In the absence of an
alley, the rear setback shall be five feet minimum for garage apartments. Principal buildings and accessory
garage apartments shall be separated by a minimum of ten feet.
5. Open-air porches and stoops, stairs and ramps may encroach into any required setback to a point not closer
than three feet to a property line.
6. Sidewalks along Broadway shall be a minimum if eight feet in clear width. The required frontage location and
corner visibility setback shall adjust to allow for the sidewalk.
c. Building uses.
1. See office commercial (OC) uses as listed in ARTICLE IX "permitted uses". Density limitations on residential
units shall not apply.
d. Architectural standards.
1. Exterior finish material shall be limited to stone, brick, stucco, pre-cast concrete, clapboard siding, and wood
shingles. Walls shall combine no more than two materials and shall change material along a horizontal line,
with the visually heavier material below the lighter material.
2. Streetwalls and fences built in line with the front building facade shall be 34 to 72 inches in height. Streetwalls
and fences in front of the building facade shall be 34 to 42 inches in height. Streetwalls or fences shall consist
of a material matching the adjacent building or one of the following: indigenous rock; block and stucco;
decorative metal; or painted, stained or pressure treated wood pickets. Chain link, barbed wire, razor wire,
electronic elements or other hazardous materials are prohibited. The height and design of the streetwalls on
nonresidential properties shall allow for surveillance of the property from the public right-of-way.
3. Rear garden walls and fences not facing streets shall be 34 to 72 inches in height. A 72-inch high garden wall
shall be required to separate nonresidential properties from residential properties outside of the mixed-use
district. Garden walls and fences shall consist of painted, stained, or pressure treated wood pickets, plasticcoated chain link combined with a hedge, decorative metal, indigenous rock, or block and stucco. Barbed
wire, razor wire, electronic elements or other hazardous materials are prohibited. The height and design of
garden walls on nonresidential properties shall allow for surveillance of the property from the public right-ofway.
4. All principal buildings shall have their principal pedestrian entrance(s) facing the Broadway frontage line.
5. Building facades shall have clear glazed areas and openings equal to 25 to 45 percent of the facade area.
The facades shall also meet the following requirements:
a. Windows shall be operable, except at grade storefronts located at primary intersections.
b. Windows shall be vertical or square in proportion.
c. Windows shall be recessed a minimum of two inches from the exterior face of the facade.
d. Multiple windows in the same rough opening shall be separated by a four-inch wide minimum post and
sit on one continuous sill.
e. Openings in upper stories shall be centered above openings in the first story. Openings on the gable
ends must be centered. Openings shall be a minimum of two feet from building corners.
f. All exterior doors shall be hinged, except garage doors.
g. Garage doors located in the principal building are not permitted to face the Broadway frontage line.
h. If shutters are used, they shall be sized to match the opening, and provided for all windows on a given
wall.
i. If security bars are used, they shall be located on the interior of the structure and designed in such a
manner so that they appear as muntins in a divided light window. Mesh and chain link are not permitted
to cover openings.
6. All awnings shall be consistent with the architecture of the building and shall be subject to the following
requirements:
a. Awnings shall be rectangular in shape with straight edges.
b. Awnings at the sidewalk level shall not have a bottom soffit or side panels.

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 2

c. Awnings at the sidewalk level shall project a minimum of four feet from the building facade. Awnings on
stories above the sidewalk level shall project a minimum of three feet from the building facade.
d. Valances shall not exceed eight inches.
e. Variances may be granted administratively by the planning director or his/her designee in order to
maintain the architectural character of a structure or, in the event that site features, such as, but not
limited to, utility line poles or street trees, restrict the applicant from full compliance.
7. Mechanical systems, backflow preventers, television antennas, satellite dishes and similar devices shall be
screened from view on all sides to the full height of the structure by landscaping or built elements designed as
an integral part of the building architecture.
8. Sloped roofs shall have symmetrical pitches of no less than 5:12, except that porch and stoop roofs may be
sheds of no less than 2:12. Buildings that utilize barrel tile roof may be pitched no less than 3:12. Flat roofs
shall be enclosed by a parapet no less than 42 inches in height.
9. Dumpsters and storage areas shall be located at the rear of the property and shall be enclosed in the building
or a structure consistent with the architecture of the building. Dumpsters for food service businesses shall be
fully enclosed and air-conditioned.
e. Sign standards.
1. The sign area shall not exceed 24 inches in height by 60 percent of the width of the building frontage. This
sign area shall be located within the first two stories of the building. Awning signs are prohibited.
2. Existing buildings that are set back from the Broadway frontage line 25 feet or more shall be permitted one
low freestanding sign for nonresidential uses. Such sign shall not exceed sixteen square feet or five feet in
height. Internally illuminated freestanding signs are prohibited.
3. Pedestrian blade signs may be attached perpendicular to the building facade and may not exceed four feet in
width by three feet in vertical dimension. One pedestrian sign is permitted for each business with a door at
the sidewalk level. The illumination of pedestrian blade signs shall be directed toward the sign face only.
4. All fasteners shall be concealed. Exposed raceways, transformers, ballasts and electrical wiring are
prohibited.
5. All installation components or hanging devices such as, but not limited to, fasteners, clips, bolts, etc. shall be
of noncorrosive, stainless steel, aluminum, brass or bronze; carbon bearing steel shall be of non-ferrous
metal of quality material and finish. All black iron materials shall be finished to withstand corrosion. All
penetrations of the fascia shall be neatly sealed in a watertight manner using a single component silicon
sealant. All signage shall have an individual circuit and be controlled by a time clock. Exposed conduit or
electrical wiring is prohibited. Internally illuminated panels are prohibited.
f. Parking and loading standards.
1. A minimum of three off-street parking spaces is required for each 1,000 square feet of nonresidential use and
one parking space for each residential unit. The number of parking spaces cannot exceed 125 percent of the
required minimum for nonresidential uses and three parking spaces per residential unit.
2. Available on-street parking along the corresponding frontage lines may be counted towards the parking
requirement.
3. All surface parking areas shall be concealed with a streetwall along all street frontages.
4. Garages shall be located a minimum of 20 feet behind the principal building facade.
5. Vehicular entries on a building facade shall not exceed 24 feet in width and driveway/curb cut openings shall
not exceed 30 feet in width.
6. Loading docks and service areas shall not be permitted facing a frontage line.
7. The zoning board of appeals may adjust by variance the parking requirements based on the existing supply in
the district, and on impact to the neighboring properties.
g. Landscaping standards.



The city's landscape code, as described in ARTICLE XIV of the zoning and land development regulations, shall
apply unless otherwise provided herein.

(Ord. No. 3648-03, § 2, 9-15-2003)

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 3

