Sec. 94-232. - Coleman Park community service (CP-CS) development characteristics
and sub-district requirements.
a. Intent. The intent of the district is to provide regulations for both non-profit facilities and public open spaces and
facilities designed to serve the needs of the surrounding residential community.
b. Building height. Building height shall not exceed 30 feet, including all habitable and mechanical space.
c. Building placement.
1. Minimum lot area: 5,000 square feet.
2. Minimum building separation: 15 feet.
3. Minimum Lot width: 50 feet.
4. Maximum FAR: 0.75
5. Minimum setbacks:

d.
e.
f.

g.

h.

i.
j.

a. Front: 25 feet.
b. Corner: 15 feet.
c. Side: 15 feet
d. Rear: 15 feet
Maximum lot coverage by buildings: 60 percent.
Maximum lot coverage by impermeable surface: 85 percent.
Minimum required open space and landscape areas may consist of setbacks, landscape and buffer areas.
a. Minimum required open space area: 40 percent
b. Minimum required landscape area: 15 percent
Parking. All parking shall be placed behind the building whenever possible. Community service uses shall provide at
least one standard parking space per 1,000 square feet. On-street parking adjacent to the property may be counted
toward the required parking.
Building uses. Uses permitted within this district are listed in the schedule of permitted uses under community
service (CS) zoning district in table IX-1 of ARTICLE IX of this chapter, unless restricted by this section. Uses on the
Henrietta Triangle are limited to community centers, cultural facilities, parks and urban market gardens. Urban
market gardens shall be developed in accordance with the requirements and standards established in section 94273(d) (78.1).
Architectural standards. Structures within this district shall adhere to the design standards established in section 94222(f).
Accessory uses. Accessory uses and structures shall include, but are not limited to private recreational facilities,
sheds, unattached sheds, tennis courts, swimming pools, and retail sales associated with urban market or botanical
gardens.

(Ord. No. 4402-12, ยง 2, 9-18-2012)

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 1

