Sec. 94-223. - Coleman Park single-family 11 (CP-SF11) development characteristics
and sub-district requirements.
a. Intent. The intent of this district is to reinforce the existing architectural character and scale of the residential
properties and encourage compatibility for all new construction and renovations.
b. Building height. The height of buildings shall not exceed 30 feet.
c. Building placement. Building placement for the Coleman Park single-family districts shall be as follows:
1. Minimum lot area: 3,500 square feet
2. Minimum lot width: 40 feet.
3. Minimum setbacks for principal buildings.
a. Contextual front setback for non-corner lots: The minimum front setback on a non-corner lot shall be
within the range of front setbacks established by the principal structures on the two non-corner
properties adjacent to the subject property on each side, on the same side of the street.
b. Contextual corner: The minimum front setback on a corner lot shall either be within the range of front
setbacks established by the principal structures on the two closest properties on the same block and
along the same side of the street as the designated front of the subject property. Where the minimum
front setback is less than that established by the principle structures on the two closest properties on
the same block and along the same side of the street, the lesser setback shall apply. Where the front
setback for the principal structure has not been established on one or more of the two closest properties
on the same block and along the same side of the street as the designated front of the subject property,
the minimum front setback set shall be ten feet or ten percent of lot depth, whichever is less.
c. Rear: ten feet or ten percent of lot depth, whichever is less;
d. Side: five feet minimum, ten feet total.
d. Parking. One standard parking space shall be provided for each single-family dwelling unit.
e. Architectural standards. Structures within this district shall adhere to the design standards established in section 94222(f).
f. Accessory structure. The following structures shall be permitted when accessory to uses permitted by right or when
accessory to permitted uses:
1. Fences and walls which comply with the requirement of section 94-302.
2. Swimming pools, tennis courts and similar recreation facilities.
(Ord. No. 4402-12, ยง 2, 9-18-2012)

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 1

