Sec. 94-234. - Coleman Park industrial (CP-I) development characteristics and subdistrict requirements.
a. Intent. The intent of the district is to provide regulations for light industrial facilities that minimally impact the
surrounding community.
b. Building height. Building height shall not exceed 30 feet, including all habitable and mechanical space.
c. Building placement.
1. Minimum lot area: 5,000 square feet.
2. Minimum building separation: 15 feet.
3. Minimum lot width: 50 feet.
4. Maximum FAR: 0.75
5. Minimum setbacks:
a. Front: 25 feet.
b. Corner: 15 feet.
c. Side: 15 feet.
d. Rear: 15 feet.
d. Maximum lot coverage by buildings: 60 percent.
e. Maximum lot coverage by impermeable surface: 85 percent.
f. Minimum required open space and landscape areas may consist of setbacks, landscape and buffer areas. An
opaque landscape buffer, in accordance with ARTICLE XIV subsection 94-443(2), shall be provided around
individual utility facilities or around the perimeter of the utility facilities in their aggregate or around the perimeter of
the property.
a. Minimum required open space area: 40 percent
b. Minimum required landscape area: 15 percent
g. Parking. All parking shall be placed behind the building whenever possible. Community service uses shall provide at
least one standard parking space per 1,000 square feet. On-street parking adjacent to the property may be counted
toward the required parking.
h. Architectural standards. Structures within this district shall adhere to the design standards established in section 94222(f).
i. Building uses. Uses permitted within this district are listed in the schedule of permitted uses under industrial (I) in
table 1-IX of ARTICLE IX of this chapter, unless prohibited by section 94-230(f).
j. Prohibited uses. The following uses shall be prohibited within the CP-I district: convenience stores; drive-thru
facilities; game arcades; industrial uses having significant external impacts; industrial uses having very significant
external impacts; industrial-type uses having very significant external impacts; liquor and party stores; mining and
extractive uses; mobile home sales, rental and service; motor vehicle repair - heavy; motor vehicle sales and rental;
outdoor storage facilities; parking garages as a principal use; pawn shops; outdoor recreation; stadiums and sports
arenas; scrap, waste and reclaimed materials trade; temporary borrow pit, piles and similar excavation; utility
facilities; warehousing having moderate external impacts; warehousing having significant external impacts;
warehousing having very significant external impacts; wholesale except apparel, piece goods and notions.
(Ord. No. 4402-12, ยง 2, 9-18-2012)

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 1

