Sec. 94-343. - Minimum street paving and specifications.
a. Generally. All street paving shall be of the flexible type, with limerock or local shellrock base and asphaltic concrete
wearing courses. All streets shall be bordered on all edges by concrete vertical curbs or headers. Street
construction shall conform to the current standards, as established by the city public department, and materials and
methods of construction shall comply with the latest edition of the state department of transportation standards
specifications for road and bridge construction, unless otherwise specified in this section.
b. Subgrade. The subgrade shall be free of muck, silt or other unsuitable materials, and shall have naturally, or shall
be stabilized to, a minimum bearing value of 40 psi to a depth of ten inches, as determined by the state bearing
test. The top ten inches of the subgrade shall be compacted to a density of not less than 100 percent of the
maximum density as determined by A.A.S.H.O. Method T-180.
c. Base. All paving base courses shall consist of a minimum compacted thickness of six inches of limerock, or, as an
alternate, a minimum compacted thickness of eight inches of local shellrock, constructed on the previously prepared
subgrade, as defined in this section. The base courses shall be compacted to a density of not less than 100 percent
of the maximum density, as determined by A.A.S.H.O. Method T-180.
d. Prime and tack coats. All base courses shall be given a prime coat. A tack coat shall be applied at the option of the
city engineer.
e. Wearing courses. A wearing course of hot plant mix asphaltic concrete shall be constructed on the base course.
Types and thickness of wearing courses for different classes of streets shall conform to the following as a minimum:
1. Major streets. One-and-one-half-inch thickness of state department of transportation type I asphaltic
concrete.
2. Collector streets. One-and-one-half-inch thickness of state department of transportation type II asphaltic
concrete.
3. Minor or local streets and alleys. One inch thickness of state department of transportation type II asphaltic
concrete.
f. Curbs and sidewalks. All curbs and sidewalks shall be constructed in accordance with current standards
established by the city engineer.
g. City engineer supervision. All construction plans and all plant, equipment, materials, mixes and methods shall be
subject to review and approval by the city engineer. Where unsatisfactory results are being obtained, he may direct
any changes deemed necessary and may stop the work when these directions are not followed until such time as
they are complied with or until satisfactory results, complying with these specifications, are obtained.
h. Crown and drainage. Excessive crown heights shall be avoided. In general, crowns shall not exceed 1½ inches for
each ten feet of width of paving. Gutters shall be sloped to drain with minimum slopes limited to 0.15 percent. Valley
gutters shall not be continued across a roadway unless approved by the city engineer, but inlets and a siphon
sewer shall be installed. An adequate storm drainage system shall be provided.
i. Conformance to street cross section plan. All of the requirements of this section shall be in accordance with a
standard street cross section plan and standard details, prepared by the city engineer, and on file in the city
records.
(Code 1979, § 33-132; Ord. No. 4538-14, § 12, 11-10-2014)

Zoning and Land Development Code

Page 1

